







Amidalans


General information

Military unit type
Resistance group



Organizational information

Commanding officer(s)
Commander Sabé


Staff officer(s)
Captain Ric OliéCaptain TonraCaptain Gregar Typho


Vehicles
Gungan bongo submarine


Location(s)
Padmé's Apartment, CoruscantNabooVendaxa



Historical information

Notable battles
Battle at Padmé's tombBattle on Polis MassaMassacre of the Amidalans


Date founded
19 BBY


Date fragmented
Between 3 ABY and 4 ABY


[Source]



"It is time, friends. Tonight we call ourselves Amidalans…and together we pledge…to find whoever murdered our queen…and kill them."
―Sabé, founding the Amidalans
The Amidalans were a resistance group founded by Sabé, former handmaiden of Queen Padmé Amidala of Naboo, following Amidala's death. Sabé gathered alongside Captains Tonra and Gregar Typho of the Royal Naboo Security Forces, and numerous others loyal to Amidala in the former queen's apartment on Coruscant, pledging to hunt down and kill whoever was responsible for her death. By 3 ABY, Sabé and her team were still active, having come to the conclusion that Amidala was killed by the Galactic Empire enforcer Darth Vader—who was, unbeknownst to them, Amidala's husband and the former Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker.
On Naboo, the Amidalans summoned a sando aqua monster to eat Vader. As the monster ate the Dark Lord, he stabbed it through the upper-mouth, becoming the first person known to kill a sando aqua monster. Sabé soon encountered Vader on Vendaxa, leading him back to Naboo, where she, Tonra, and Typho attempted to kill him. However, Vader managed to use the Force to choke each of them and escaped. Luckily, each of them survived, but Vader was soon met by an army of Amidalans led by Captain Ric Olié waiting for him and his death troopers. Vader managed to subdue each one, however, and stabbed Olié through the shoulder, wounding, but not fully killing, him. On Polis Massa, Vader encountered the Amidalan Fleet, who tried to kill him, but Vader either used the Force to blow up their engines, or his lightsaber to cut them off. He defeated the fleet, and returned to his master Palpatine, leaving a hundred Amidalans bleeding out on the asteroid.
At some point after, Imperial forces under the command of General Hurst Romodi carried out a purge of the group, leading to several commendations awarded to Romodi's forces. The bodies of at least seven individuals from the Amidalans were identifiable from a holo image obtained by Ochi of Bestoon. However, the handmaidens survived.



 This article is a stub. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
