    
For other uses, see Bana.







Bana Breemu


Biographical information

Homeworld
Humbarine



Descriptive information

Species
Human


Pronouns
She/her


Hair color
Black


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Tan



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic RepublicDelegation of 2,000


[Source]

Bana Breemu was a human native of Humbarine, capital world of the Humbarine sector. During the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Breemu served as a senator in the Republic's Galactic Senate, representing the Humbarine sector. The sector saw heavy fighting during the conflict, including the Separatist bombardment of Humbarine.
As Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine acrued emergency powers throughout the Clone Wars with no formal mechanism for these to be roled back, a number of senators became concerned and formed the Delegation of 2,000, a group that Breemu joined that was associated with a petition to Palpatine. Following the end of the conflict in 19 BBY, a number of the senators who were part of the delegation were arrested by the newly formed Galactic Empire. Breemu had tan skin, brown eyes, and black hair. She wore a violet dress with a matching hood and sleeves as well as a pair of black shoes.

Behind the scenes
Filming

"When you present the Petition of the 2000 to the Chancellor, things may change."
―Part of Bana Breemu's dialogue in the deleted scene —  Listen (file info)
Bana Breemu was created for the prequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, which released on May 19, 2005. Portrayed by actress Bai Ling, the character appeared in one scene in which several senators meet in Senator Padmé Amidala apartment on the plant Coruscant to discuss forming the Delegation of 2,000 over concerns about Palpatine. When Amidala suggests consulting a Jedi that she trusts, Breemu objects that it would be dangerous but later says that things may change once they have presented the petition to the chancellor.
Ling got the role after befriending Katie Lucas, daughter of director George Lucas, at the 2003 MTV Music Awards, where Katie introduced the actress to George and Ling informed him that it would be a dream come true to appear in Star Wars. Two weeks later, her agent contacted her saying that she was being offered a role in the upcoming film. Her scene was then filmed on Stage 1 at Fox Studios, Sydney on July 2, 2003. Ling describes the experience of filming as like being in an amusement park or like children playing with toys. Before filming she asked Lucas what she should do, to which he responded "whatever you want," giving the actress an artistic freedom that she appreciated.

Scene deletion and further appearances
Breemu's one scene in the film was cut prior to the theatrical release, later being included as a deleted scene on home releases. Ling claimed that this may have been the result of her posing for a Star Wars-themed spread in an issue of Playboy magazine that was published at around the time of the film's release, although George insisted that the cuts were made due to the film's length nearly a year prior to her posing for the magazine.
Prior to the release of Revenge of the Sith, Breemu debuted in the Star Wars Legends continuity in James Luceno's novel Labyrinth of Evil, a tie-in prequel to the film released on January 25, 2005. In the current Star Wars canon, the character was first mentioned outside of the deleted scene in the 2017 reference book Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia.
