Bespin


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim TerritoriesWestern Reaches


Sector
Anoat sector


System
Bespin system


Moons
2


Grid square
K-18


Distance from Core
49,100 light-years


Rotation period
12 standard-hours


Orbital period
14 standard-years



Physical information

Class
Gas giant


Diameter
118,000 kilometers (73,322 miles)


Atmosphere
Breathable (in the life stratum)


Terrain
Gaseous


Flora
Algae


Fauna
Air shrimpBeldonCrab gliderRawwkVelker



Societal information

Other species
HumanUgnaught


Primary language(s)
Galactic Basic StandardUgnaught


Population
6,000,000


Demonym
Bespinite


Major cities
Chinook StationCloud CityUgnorgrad


Major exports
Tibanna


Affiliation
Galactic EmpireUbrik Adelhard's Imperial remnantNew RepublicFirst Order


[Source]



"Bespin. It's pretty far, but I think we can make it."
―Captain Han Solo
Bespin was a gas giant in the star system of the same name in the Anoat sector, its riches manifested in the form of rare tibanna gas. Attracting mining interests and remaining unaffiliated in galactic affairs, Ugnaughts were employed to extract tibanna from repulsorlifted facilities whilst Bespin's mostly human population resided in the open upper levels, exposed to a thin layer of breathable atmosphere in an area known as a "Life Zone."

Description
     The Millennium Falcon approaches cloud city, a floating settlement on the gas giant of Bespin.  
Bespin was an immense gas giant located in the vicinity of the Anoat sector, a desolate sector of the galaxy. Bespin had two moons, and its gaseous mass contained a thin stratum of habitable atmosphere above a source of rare and costly tibanna gas, although there was no habitable land or water on the planet. The planet completed a full orbit around its star every 14 standard-years and a full rotation every 12 standard-hours. Viewed from the upper levels of Cloud City, in the breathable layer of the world, sunsets lasted 2 hours.
Tibanna gas was harvested and refined in several mining complexes, including Cloud City, an opulent metropolis suspended in the planet's huge billowing clouds, and Chinook Station, a fuel depot and refueling station. The Ugnaught city of Ugnorgrad also was located over the planet, being ruled by King Ozz in the time after the Battle of Endor. Cloud City processed tibanna to be sold off-world.
Bespin was home to many types of life, which was rare for a gas giant. The planet had two sister worlds, from which it was separated by an asteroid belt called Velser's Ring.
Swimming pools were considered a rare luxury on Bespin.

History
During the Galactic Civil War, Bespin remained unaffiliated, but that did not prevent the Galactic Empire from garrisoning the planet and seizing Cloud City. However, with the Empire's defeat at Endor, the gas giant and its prosperous mining colony ended up recovering their freedom.
Following the Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY, Bespin was in open rebellion against the First Order.

Behind the scenes
Bespin first appeared in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, although it was first mentioned in the magazine Star Wars Official Poster Monthly 18 as part of a preview of the second installment of the Star Wars saga. The issue was published in March, 1979. The first draft of The Empire Strikes Back, includes a beautiful, jewel-like planet known as Besspin Kaalieda.
Both the Encyclopedia and the Databank entries for Bespin on StarWars.com says the gas giant was "surrounded by a number of moons." Star Wars: Complete Locations, published in 2016, establishes that the planet had two moons.
