Boushh


Biographical information

Homeworld
Uba IV


Died
4 ABY



Descriptive information

Species
Ubese


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.5 meters



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Boushh's crewBounty Hunters' GuildBlack SunTagge Corporation


[Source]



"I lost my family once. I don't want to lose it again."
―Boushh to his crew
Boushh was a male Ubese from Uba IV who worked as a bounty hunter. Following his little-known demise at the hands of the Black Sun crime syndicate, Princess Leia Organa impersonated him in order to infiltrate Jabba's Palace and free Han Solo.

Biography
Bounty hunting career

"Calm yourself. We're all friends here. 'Await the dawn'.""That code phrase. You're with Crimson Dawn too?""Nah." [vzew!]
―Boushh to Crimson Dawn members before shooting them both
Born on the planet Uba IV, Boushh left his homeworld as soon as he could. The Ubese male eventually secured a reputation for himself as a formidable and dangerous bounty hunter despite his small stature and worked for many paymasters over his career.
At some point, Boushh lost his family; he came upon a settlement on fire, and despite how distraught he was, other beings asked what he had done. He was exiled from Uba IV and his public records were erased. In time, Boushh began to lead a crew of fellow exiled Ubese bounty hunters: Brene, Hareck, Ilini and Tans.
Between 19 BBY and 4 ABY, Boushh assisted in the chase of Max Rebo's brother Azool Phantelle by Jabba the Hutt. Boushh attempted to stop Phantelle by firing a missile launcher at the escaping Ortolans but instead caused more chaos on the streets of Mos Eisley.

Ord Mantell

"So what's the plan?""Patience. The solution will present itself."[Boushh fires at the group]"We've got a problem!""No, that's the solution!"
―Leia Organa and Maz Kanata
     Boushh on Ord Mantell  
In 4 ABY, Boushh was located on Ord Mantell, where he encountered Princess Leia Organa, the Wookiee Chewbacca, and the astromech droid R2-D2, Rebel Alliance members who traveled to the world in the Millennium Falcon. The wanted fugitives sought help from Maz Kanata regarding the recently captured Han Solo, held in carbonite by Jabba the Hutt.
Leading the rebels down an alleyway, Kanata assured an anxious Leia Organa that her solution would present itself with patience. Before Organa could respond, Boushh attacked the group, yet after a brief exchange of blaster fire and melee combat, Boushh was disarmed by a calm and collected Leia Organa, before being downed by R2-D2 with a nearby machinery and stunned unconscious by Maz Kanata. Boushh's armor was then taken by Organa as a disguise, per Kanata's suggestion, as a solution to her plans to infiltrate Jabba's Palace and rescue Han Solo.

Demise and legacy

«I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.»
―Leia Organa, impersonating Boushh
     Leia Organa, disguised as the late Boushh, before Jabba the Hutt  
Boushh's career ended that year when he tried to blackmail the Black Sun crime syndicate, which resulted in his death. Taking advantage of the fact that Boushh's demise wasn't widely known, Leia Organa used his armor and helmet for infiltration missions. According to rumors, it was Lord Gyuti who brought about the death of Boushh after a deal between the Black Sun lord and the bounty hunter collapsed.
On one such occasion, Organa utilized the armor on Arkanis in order to rescue Lando Calrissian from bounty hunters, including the infamous Trandoshan Bossk. Cementing Boushh's reputation with Bossk, Leia Organa's preparation for rescuing Han Solo neared completion.
Once again employing her ruse at Jabba's Palace, Organa secured Boushh's stay at the Hutt's criminal headquarters. However, Boba Fett had informed Jabba in advance that it would not actually be Boushh under the helmet; Jabba presumed that it was a smuggler using Boushh's armor and helmet. She no longer wore Boushh's attire after her identity was revealed in the midst of attempting to extract Han Solo. In The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters, the pirate Hondo Ohnaka pondered that, because Boushh's identity under his armor remained a secret, the bounty hunter could secretly still be alive.

Equipment
     Boushh's helmet boasted many functions.  

"The mighty Jabba asks why he must pay 50,000.""Ay yoto!""Because he's holding a thermal detonator!"
―C-3PO and Leia Organa, disguised as Boushh
Heavily-clad in a distinctive bounty-hunter gear, he wore an all-leather outfit, gloves, and a head-concealing helmet with a metal speech scrambler and head bracket equipped with a vision-plus scanner and built-in targeting laser. Boushh wielded a long lance tipped with a shock blade.

Behind the scenes
Boushh was created for the 1983 Star Wars film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. In the film, Leia Organa impersonates Boushh in an attempt to negotiate with Jabba the Hutt about the price of Chewbacca. Boushh's vocal sounds while communicating with Jabba were provided by Pat Welsh. In Star Wars Forces of Destiny, Boushh was voiced by Matt Lanter.
