Camie Marstrap


Biographical information

Homeworld
Tatooine



Descriptive information

Species
Human


Gender
Female


Pronouns
She/her


Hair color
Brown


Eye color
Blue


Skin color
Fair


[Source]

Camie Marstrap was a human female who lived in Anchorhead on Tatooine. Her family grew hydroponics gardens, buying the water from Owen Lars. Marstrap frequented the Tosche Station along with her boyfriend, Laze "Fixer" Loneozner and their friends Deak, Windy, and Luke Skywalker.

Biography
Early life
     Marstrap in her youth  
Camie Marstrap hailed from Tatooine, a sun-scorched desert planet located in the Outer Rim Territories of the galaxy. Her parents, a couple of hydroponic gardeners, frequently bought water from the moisture farmers Owen and Beru Lars, who lived in the Jundland Wastes. As a result, Marstrap became acquainted with Luke Skywalker, the Larses' nephew and adopted son. In her late teens, Marstrap lived in Anchorhead and spent her free time at Tosche Station with Skywalker, Biggs Darklighter, Deak, Windy, and her boyfriend Laze "Fixer" Loneozner. Like the other members of that small circle, Marstrap nicknamed Skywalker "Wormie," which sometimes made him doubt the sincerity of their friendship.

A mysterious stranger

"Stop it! Leave him alone!"
―Camie Marstrap, to the Niktos attacking Laze Loneozner
     Loneozner and Marstrap witness Boba Fett taking out the Nikto bikers.  
Sometime after Skywalker's rescue of Han Solo, Marstrap and Loneozner encountered several Nikto bikers at Tosche Station. They had several of their things and drinks taken from them. Loneozner verbally protested their actions, something Marstrap attempted to dissuade him from doing but failed to do so. The Niktos then began to rough him up. Marstrap attempted to intervene, shouting for them to stop, but she was restrained by one of the Niktos and was forced to watch the Niktos beat Loneozner with a shock stick. As she and Loneozner continued to struggle, the Niktos suddenly stopped their attack when Boba Fett entered the room. The Niktos then attacked Fett who proceeded to dispatch the Niktos one by one while Loneozner and Marstrap huddled in a corner and watched.

Skywalker's dream
In 34 ABY, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker experienced a dream whilst living in exile on Ahch-To. In his dream, he married Camie Marstrap during the early stages of the Galactic Civil War, and remained in the moisture farming business with his uncle and aunt. While dreaming of a different life, Skywalker stood outside of his homestead, gazing at the sunset with his wife as they reminisced of the time they shared together during the war between the Galactic Empire and Rebel Alliance. Marstrap became unsettled by her husband, suspecting that he wanted to be far away from her, but Skywalker assured her that it was not the case.

Personality and traits
A human female, Camie Marstrap had fair skin and blue eyes. She had long, wavy brown hair, which she wore down.

Behind the scenes
In the original production of Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope (then known as simply Star Wars) in 1976, there were several minutes of film involving Luke Skywalker spending time at Tosche power station with his friends. The only girl in the group was Camie, portrayed by the American actress Koo Stark. Although those scenes were not used in the final film release, they still appeared in the novelization of the film as well as the first issue of the Marvel Star Wars comics adaptation of A New Hope. They were also retained in the 1981 Star Wars Radio Drama broadcast by National Public Radio. In this dramatization, Camie was voiced by Stephanie Steele. Camie made a few more appearances in various stories and sourcebooks. These sources are part of Star Wars Legends, previously known as the Expanded Universe, and are therefore not official canon. However, Camie and her backstory were partially canonized by Topps's app Star Wars: Card Trader, which was released in 2015.
In Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine, the second chapter of the series The Book of Boba Fett, she was portrayed by Mandy Kowalski.
