    
This article is about the clone trooper rank.You may be looking for the generic military rank or title of "captain".







Clone Captain


Historical information

Established by
22 BBY



Organizational information

Government
Galactic RepublicGalactic Empire


Organization
Republic MilitaryGrand Army of the RepublicGalactic Republic NavyImperial MilitaryStormtrooper Corps


Position type
Military rank


Duties
Command of a companySecond-in-command of a battalionCommand of a starship


[Source]



"As sure as it is my duty to remain loyal to your command, I also have another duty. To protect those men."
―Clone Captain Rex, to General Pong Krell and referring to the clone troopers under his command
Clone Captain, also known as clone trooper captain, was a rank held by clone trooper officers.

Description
In the Galactic Republic's Grand Army, Clone Captains commanded companies of 144 troopers, although this limitation did not apply to every captain. The sixteen captains of a regiment were in turn led by their respective Clone Commander, and, if they were part of such units, a Jedi General and Jedi Commander. Standard Phase I captains wore armor featuring four maroon circles on the left chest plate as well as a stripe of maroon down the length of each arm, vertically up the middle of the helmet and laterally around the visor. Clone Captains also could be assigned forces in the Galactic Republic Navy. The Clone Captain rank persisted into the early Imperial Era as part of the Stormtrooper Corps.

History
     The respected Clone Captain Rex  
Rex was a respected and notable Clone Captain who served as the leader of the 501st Legion and the legion's Torrent Company. He often took orders directly from Jedi General Anakin Skywalker, and served as Skywalker's first in command. Rex also had authority over Execute Battalion and Carnivore Battalion of the 501st Legion.
In the final moments of the Clone Wars, Clone Captains, along with the rest of the Grand Army, were ordered by Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine to betray and kill their Jedi Generals. The rank of Clone Captain continued to exist in the Imperial Military during the early years of Darth Sidious' reign as Galactic Emperor as the clones continued their military service as the first generation of stormtroopers. Howzer and Wilco were two notable troopers that held the rank of Clone Captain in the Galactic Empire, though the former would eventually be arrested for insubordination, and the latter would be executed by the corrupt Vice Admiral Edmon Rampart for refusing to falsify an official military report.



 This article is a stub about a military subject. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
