BX-series droid commando captain


Production information

Manufacturer
Baktoid Combat Automata


Product line
BX-series droid commando


Class
Battle droid


Degree
Fourth-degree droid



Technical specifications

Height
1.91 meters (6 ft, 3 in)


Gender
Masculine programing


Sensor color
White


Plating color
Black,


Armament
E-5 blaster rifleVibrosword



Chronological and political information

Affiliation
Confederacy of Independent SystemsSeparatist Droid Army


[Source]



"Four clones escaped, captain.""They don't matter. Hard wire the all clear signal, and contact General Grievous."
―A droid commando and droid commando captain Sparky
Commando droid captains were BX-series droid commandos tasked with commanding their fellow BX-series droids. The standard design of these droid captains possessed white head and chest markings.

Characteristics
     The commando droid captain Sparky on the Rishi Moon.  
Commando droid captains, like other commando droids, were programmed with improved combat tactics and battlefield awareness. The droids had glowing white photoreceptors, like normal commando droids, however, captains and other high-ranking commando droids bore white markings on their heads and chests.

History
A command droid captain nicknamed "Sparky" by clone trooper Hevy led the attack on Rishi Station, which was tasked with transmitting warnings if the Confederacy ever tried to invade the clone homeworld of Kamino. As per General Grievous's orders, the droids needed to capture the outpost and maintain an all clear signal so as to keep Grievous's coming invasion of Kamino a secret. After landing in boarding ships on Rishi moon, the droid killed clone trooper Droidbait. As he entered the listening post, he shot and killed clone trooper Sergeant O'Niner, and another clone, CT-327. The remaining four clones escaped, and the captain thought they were inferior though one of the commando droids reported there were four missing clones. The droids took control of the base and replaced the alarm with an "all clear" signal. They contacted General Grievous, who instructed the captain to continue transmitting the signal. When clone troopers Cody and Rex arrived, the droids destroyed their Nu-class attack/transport shuttle. Later, the clones were able to take control of their station and destroy all the droid commandos, including Sparky.

     Three BX-series droid commando captains on Naboo.  
One commando droid captain served at the Citadel and was present during the Battle of Lola Sayu. The droids were also used by the Separatist Gungan Rish Loo on Naboo against Anakin Skywalker and Padmé Amidala, and parts from commando droid captains were turned into monster droids. One monster droid and another were used with other monster droids as target practice for Death Watch, along with a commando droid captain that was still in one piece and retained its original parts.
The droids were also used by the Confederacy during the Battle of Dathomir, the invasion of Florrum, and the Battle of Ringo Vinda.
