







"Creature Safari"

Production information

Series
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures


Season
Season 1


Episode
5


Air date
May 4, 2023



Episode chronology

Timeline
232 BBY


Previous episode
"The Jellyfruit Pursuit"


Next episode
"Squadron"


[Source]


"Creature Safari" is the second part of the fifth episode of the animated series Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures. It was released on Disney+ on May 4, 2023.

Official description
A creature is found.

Plot summary
The Yamradi safari
The story opens with SF-R3 ("Aree") of the Galactic Society of Creature Enthusiasts making a broadcast while CAM records. Aree introduces his Jedi friends Kai Brightstar, Lys Solay and Nubs, who issue greetings to the audience. Aree says that they are on the planet Yamradi, which is home to critters known as Chylaroo. Following the broadcast, Solay thanks Aree for letting them come along. Brightstar remarks that Solay is excited.
Solay tells Aree that he loved the Galactic Creature Guide particularly its sections on the Gedonian Ground Weevil, Exogorth, and Charhounds. Aree thanks Solay, telling her that he and CAM are proud of it. Aree hopes to add new insights on the Chylaroo into the Creature Guide. At Aree's prompting, the younglings join him and CAM in exploring the forest. They see several animals including River Qwewts, rodents, and birds.
Shortly late, the group spots a Chylaroo hiding among the bushes. Aree is about to warn CAM and the younglings to be careful. However, several Chylaroo gather around Solay, who strokes and cuddles them. Aree asks Solay and Nubs how Solay got them to come over so easily. Brightstar alludes to Solay's special affinity with animals before he and Nubs join Solay in socializing with the critters. Aree inspects the Chylaroo and notices their frills. Solay remarks that their frills seem to expand when people stroke them.

The birdnapping of CAM
Cam spots some movement in then nearby bushes and heads out to explore them. He encounters a large, horned bird with teeth which grabs him, causing the camera to fade out. Aree and the younglings soon spot the large, horned bird flying away with CAM in its mouth. The Jedi younglings and Aree run after the giant bird on foot but the bird soars away. When Aree asks where CAM and the bird went, Brightstar briefly recounts what happened and says that they lost sight of where the bird was heading to. When Solay asks Aree what was the bird, Aree admits that he has not seen the creature before. Solay deduces that it is a new species.
Aree is worried about the safety of his friend CAM. Solay thinks that no creature would eat a droid while Brightstar promises to get CAM back. Soly spots a blue feather which she recognizes as belonging to the creature. They decide to follow the creature's trail and explore the nearby trees for the creature's nest. While the Jedi have no problem climbing, Aree strugles to keep up. Nubs is startled by a reflective yellow and purple fruit and falls off a branch. Before he can hit the ground, Solay and Brightstar use their Force powers to levitate him to safety.
While Solay and Brightstar tend to Nubs, Aree climbs down a tree. Solay is perplexed that they can't find the bird's nest. They find a second bird feather outside a burrow. The younglings decide to explore the burrow. Aree fears that the bird is a droid eater. Solay comforts him and reminds him about the mission of being a Galactic Creature Enthusiast: finding out more about animals and their behaviours. Aree agrees with Solay.

Rescuing the droids
The four explore the burrow with the Jedi drawing their lightsabers. They soon spot an unharmed CAM inside a large nest. A relieved Aree climbs onto the edge of the nest and hugs CAM. However, their presence awakens the big bird, which pursues the younglings and droids. The creature grabs CAM with its beak and engages in a tug of war with Aree, who fears being eaten. The bird beats its wings, driving the younglings out of its burrow.
With the bird guarding the nest, the Jedi ponder what to do next. Solay expresses frustration that she does not know what to do since the creature has taken both CAM and Aree. Solay realizes that the bird is not a droid eater and asks what it is up to. Nubs mouths in Poobian as Solay walks around in circles. Brightstar reassures Nubs that Solay is thinking. Despite their limited knowledge of the creature, Solay decides to investigate whether the bird eats the super shiny berries of the planet. Brightstar deduces that the bird mistook CAM for a shiny berry, which is its main staple.
At Solay's prompting, the younglings collect several berries. Brightstar and Nubs tie rings of shiny berries around their bodies and clothes. Solay's plan is to use her friends to distract the bird with berries while she rescue the droids. As Nubs and Brightstar approach the bird's nest inside the burrow, Aree attempts to reason with the bird about getting back with his friends. Brightstar and Nubs alert the bird and flee the burrow with the berries. Solay takes advantage of the bird's absence to sneak into the burrow and find the droids.
She finds Aree and CAM recording a broadcast for their show. Solay is relieved that the droids are safe. Aree introduces Solay to their new friends, which consist of three chicks. Solay is delighted to see the chicks. Aree tells Solay that the bird was not a droid eater but was looking for fruit to bring back to its chicks. Solay remarks that CAM looks a lot like a berry. The mother bird soon returns with Brightstar and Nubs in tow. The bird drops them and their berry rings. The boys allow the chicks to tickle them.

Solay's discovery
Outside the burrow, the mother bird lets Solay feed her a berry and hug her. Nubs lets the chicks chase him and the berries. Aree thanks the Jedi younglings for their help. He gives credit to Solay for staying calm when CAM went missing. He also thanks Solay for reminding him about his mission as a member of the Galactic Society of Creature Enthusiasts, which is to learn more about galactic wildlife. Aree thanks Solay for helping discover a new creature and gives her the honor of officially naming the newly discovered creature.
Solay is delighted. When Brightstar asks what she is going to name the creature, Solay recalls that it likes berries and lives in a burrow. She decides to call it a burrowberry bird. Aree makes the announcement with CAM recording the video. He also introduces the burrowberry bird's chicks. The bird licks CAM. CAM records with the younglings and birds and tells his viewers that they will meet again next time.
