DavijaanCC-2237


Biographical information

Homeworld
Kamino



Descriptive information

Species
Human (clone)


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.83 meters (6ft)


Hair color
Black


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Tan



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic RepublicClone Flight Squad SevenGalactic EmpireClone Flight Squad Seven


[Source]



"We're on your tail, General Kenobi."
―Davijaan, during the Battle of Coruscant
Davijaan, designated CC-2237 and also known by the callsign "Odd Ball," was a Clone Commander and pilot during the Clone Wars who participated in campaigns such as the Battle of Teth, the Battle of Umbara, the Battle of Coruscant, and the Battle of Utapau. A skilled pilot, Odd Ball flew an assortment of various starfighters including a V-19 Torrent starfighter, a BTL-B Y-wing starfighter/bomber and an ARC-170. During the Clone Wars, Odd Ball often served under the command of Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi.

Biography
Early life
The clone trooper CC-2237, who eventually took on the name Davijaan, was a human clone of the bounty hunter Jango Fett created on Kamino. He would also receive the codename "Odd Ball," which further served as his callsign. Used as if it was his name, "Odd Ball" became a common way to refer to the clone trooper pilot. While on Kamino, Odd Ball received early training as part of the pilot program.

The Clone Wars
The early days

"Thank you, sir. Sorry I panicked.""That's alright, Odd Ball. It happens to everybody."
―CC-2237 apologizes to Obi-Wan Kenobi, during the Battle of Teth —  Listen (file info)
With the outbreak of the Clone Wars following the First Battle of Geonosis, Odd Ball, now a Clone Commander and leader of Clone Flight Squad Seven, was sent to a flight academy on the Republic capital planet of Coruscant for additional training. There, Odd Ball learned new tactics and tricks, which he passed down to the pilots under his command. As the squadron commander of Squad Seven, Odd Ball fell under the leadership of Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi and under the structure of his Open Circle Armada.

     Odd Ball during the Battle of Teth.  
During the Republic's attempt to rescue Jabba the Hutt's kidnapped son, Odd Ball was called in to assist the troops who were fighting Separatist Alliance forces during the Battle of Teth. Flying in a V-19 Torrent starfighter, he and Squad Seven fought oncoming vulture droids alongside Kenobi. During the battle, Odd Ball was tailed by vulture droids and remarked that he was unable to shake them off. General Kenobi came to the pilot's aid and was able to destroy the droids and save Odd Ball. The clone pilot apologized for panicking and Kenobi assured him that it happened to everybody.

Battle of Umbara
     CC-2237 and a wingman conduct a bombing run during the Battle of Umbara.  

"Good old Odd Ball. Always on target."
―Jesse
At the start of the Battle of Umbara, Odd Ball participated alongside the rest of Squad Seven, and he along with another bomber were called in to provide reinforcements. They bombed a vulnerable enemy position moments after the last of the clone forces evacuated the area.

Battle of Cato Neimoidia
     "Odd Ball" on Cato Neimoidia with Plo Koon.  
Odd Ball was present on Cato Neimoidia, escorting Jedi General Plo Koon in the atmosphere. His unit, Clone Flight Squad Seven, participated in the Battle of Cato Neimoidia.

Battle of Coruscant

"Clone Flight Squad Seven launched from the carrier Ro-Ti-Mundi. Our mission was to escort Jedi Generals Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker to the Separatist flagship Invisible Hand and cover them while they executed a boarding action."
―Oddball's gives his account of the Battle of Coruscant
     Oddball during the Battle of Coruscant  
Odd Ball also participated in the Battle of Coruscant, leading Clone Flight Squad Seven to the Invisible Hand for Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker. He ordered the squad's V-19 Torrent starfighters to take point, this group of fighters punched a hole through the Droid tri-fighters. This allowed the Jedi and the squad's ARC-170 Starfighters to move towards the Invisible Hand. When the Jedi landed in the ship's hangar, the squad eliminated priority targets and stayed close in case they were needed for aid. He did not expect the Jedi to survive.

Battle of Utapau
When it was discovered that the leader of the Separatist Droid Army, General Grievous was hiding on the planet of Utapau, Kenobi and the 212th Attack Battalion were sent. Clone troopers engaged battle droids in a heated confrontation, whilst Kenobi had his final confrontation with Grievous, ultimately resulting in the cyborg's death. A time later, however, Order 66 was issued by Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine. As the contingency was issued, Odd Ball was in battle above Utapau as part of Obi-Wan's fleet. Odd Ball and the rest of Squad Seven on Utapau turned on the Utapau Skyforce and subjugated the planet. He then coordinated the rest of Squad Seven in an effort to hunt down Kenobi, as his body was not found after his reported "death," coordinating ships to search the area around Pau City. Odd Ball and his unit later served the Galactic Empire.

Personality and traits
A human male clone of the bounty hunter Jango Fett, CC-2237 was 1.83 meters tall and had brown eyes. He proved to be a skilled pilot during the Clone Wars and was apologetic towards Obi-Wan Kenobi when the Jedi provided assistance at the Battle of Teth.

Equipment
Initially during the Clone Wars, Odd Ball donned standard Phase I armor for all clone trooper pilots. Later on in the war, he switched to the Phase II variant which featured a fully enclosed helmet and breathing apparatus. However even further on in the war his armor changed yet again when he adopted the newer open-helmet design, which he wore during the Battle of Coruscant.

Behind the scenes
CC-2237 was portrayed by Temuera Morrison in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. He also appeared in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars film and television series, in which he was voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.
In Star Wars Helmet Collection 45, predominantly in the first half of the magazine, Odd Ball is first referred to as a Clone Commander. In the second half of the magazine, the rank changes to Clone Captain. Because Star Wars: Complete Vehicles also refers to him as a Clone Commander, this article assumes that the rank of Clone Captain is erroneous.
