Death Star's shield generator


General information

Destroyed
4 ABY


Location
Endor


Builder(s)
Galactic Empire



Chronological and political information

Affiliation
Galactic Empire


[Source]



"The shield is down. Commence attack on the Death Star's main reactor."
―Admiral Gial Ackbar to the Alliance Fleet during the Battle of Endor
The Death Star's shield generator was an Imperial Military installation on Endor during the Galactic Civil War. The facility housed the generator that powered the SLD-26 planetary shield generator protecting the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station, which was being constructed in orbit of the forest moon. The base was guarded by the Tempest Force garrison of stormtroopers, scout troopers, Imperial Navy Troopers and other Imperial officers, along with a complement of All Terrain Scout Transports and All Terrain Armored Transports. During the Battle of Endor, an Alliance strike team led by General Han Solo infiltrated the bunker that housed the Imperial shield facility and destroyed it. This lowered the shields on the orbiting Death Star, allowing the Alliance Fleet to destroy the battle station.

Description

"The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that landing platform. This isn't gonna be easy."
―Leia Organa Solo
     Stormtroopers defend the bunker's secret entrance  
The shield generator was constructed for the purpose of protecting the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station from attack by Rebel forces. It was a large building over 22.5 meters high, taller than the AT-AT walkers deployed to guard it. At the very top of the structure was a large landing pad for starships such as Lambda-class T-4a shuttles, and a dish for projecting the energy shield. The landing pads had elevators connecting to catwalks below, which had docking ports for the walkers. At least two bunker entrances at ground level allowed ground crews access to a long corridor leading to the bowels of the facility, which housed a variety of generators and other electrical equipment. The rear bunker entrance was built into a hill and equipped with blast doors, and had a small clearing in front of it.

History
Construction
Early in the Galactic Civil War, the Galactic Empire's deep-space mobile battle station known as the Death Star was destroyed by the Rebel Alliance during the Battle of Yavin. After its destruction, the Empire set out to build a second Death Star, one larger and more powerful than its planet-destroying predecessor. They constructed the weapon in orbit of the Forest Moon of Endor and constructed a shield generator facility to protect the Death Star II from attacks on the site of an Ewok village they destroyed. Once completed, the generator was placed under the command of Colonel Dyer, with Commander Altadan Igar and Major Hewex offering support.
In 4 ABY, Galactic Emperor Darth Sidious allowed the Rebel Alliance to learn the location of the Death Star II and its shield generator. The information was stolen by Bothan spies, many of whom died to retrieve the information, and Sidious intended to use the information to lure the Rebellion into a trap over Endor where the Alliance could be destroyed.

Battle of Endor

"You Rebel scum!"
―Commander Renz, to Han Solo
     Believing he could return his father to the light, Luke Skywalker surrendered himself and reunited with Darth Vader on one of the base's walkways.  
Once the information was secure, the Rebel Alliance put a plan in place to destroy the shield generator and launch a space-based attack on the Death Star II. General Han Solo led a landing party on Endor that included Princess Leia Organa, Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca, the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO, and a number of Rebel troopers. After the group made an alliance with the local Ewoks, Luke left the group to confront his father, Sith Lord Darth Vader, and surrendered himself to an Imperial patrol. The patrol arrested him and brought him to Vader at the shield generator's catwalks. After a short exchange in which Luke attempted to convince his father to let go of his hatred, Vader brought his son before his Sith Master aboard the Death Star.
On Endor, the landing party joined forces with the native Ewoks, who went on to assist the Rebels in their march towards the shield generator. Upon finding how heavily guarded the main entrance was, the Rebels were shown the alternate entrance, which was guarded by only a few Imperial soldiers. Paploo, one of the Ewoks, stole an Imperial speeder bike to distract most of the guards, leaving only one for the Rebels to capture.
With the entrance secure, the Rebels entered the base with the intention of setting charges to destroy it. They quickly found that it was a trap, however, and were captured by Imperial forces, a large contingent of which was waiting outside. However, the Ewoks appeared and attacked the troopers, with the Rebels soon joining in the fight as well. Not long after, the Imperial ground forces were defeated. The Rebels were faced with a new problem, however. The bunker's door had been closed and R2, who had been trying to reopen it, had been shot in the process. Han attempted to hot-wire the controls, but also failed. When a stolen All Terrain Scout Transport piloted by Chewbacca and several Ewoks appeared, Han found an Imperial uniform and contacted the bunker's commander with the AT-ST, posing as Imperial Major Newland in order to trick him into opening the back door by claiming that the Rebels had fled and the Imperials needed help pursuing them.

     The destruction of the shield generator cleared the way for the Rebel victory at Endor.  
The commander fell for the ruse and ordered three squads to help. As the backdoor was opened and the troops ran out, they were quickly surrounded by Rebels and Ewoks, causing them to promptly surrender, allowing Han and his team access to the base. The Rebels entered and placed remote detonators around the control room. Starting the timer, they quickly ran out of the bunker and took cover as it exploded, deactivating the shield generator and allowing the Alliance Fleet to attack and destroy the Death Star II in orbit.

First Order-Resistance War
During the First Order-Resistance War, R2-D2 and C-3PO once more returned to the moon. After a brief disagreement, R2-D2 abandoned C-3PO and journeyed deep into the forest, strolling past the site of the shield generator's secret entrance, now overflowing with plant overgrowth.

Behind the scenes
The Death Star's shield generator first appeared in the 1983 film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, and was first identified by this name on the official Star Wars website.
