    
For other uses, see Death Star (disambiguation).







Death Star


Production information

Designer
GeonosiansStalgasin hiveProject Celestial PowerGalen Walton Erso


Manufacturer
Imperial Military Department of Advanced Weapons ResearchKuat Drive YardsSienar Fleet Systems


Model
DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle StationDS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station



Usage

Role(s)
Planet-destroying battle station


Affiliation
SithConfederacy of Independent SystemsGalactic RepublicGalactic Empire


[Source]



"We call it the Death Star. There is no better name, and the day is coming soon when it will be unleashed."
―Scientist Galen Erso
A Death Star was a gargantuan space station armed with a planet-destroying superlaser powered by kyber crystals.



 This article is a stub about a space station. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.

Death Stars
DS-1 Battle Station
 Main article: DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle Station

"That's no moon. It's a space station."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi —  Listen (file info)
     Constructions modules were used during construction of the Death Star.  
The DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle Station, also called the DS-1 Orbital Battle Station, was originally designed by the Geonosians before the Galactic Republic and later the Galactic Empire took over the project. However, the plans for the battle station were stolen by the Rebel Alliance from Scarif, leading to its destruction at the Battle of Yavin, but not before it unleashed its planet-destroying cannon on Alderaan, Jedha City (Jedha), and the Imperial Archives on Scarif.

DS-2 Battle Station
 Main article: DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station

"The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location of the Emperor's new battle station."
―Mon Mothma
     The Second Death Star orbiting Endor.  
After the destruction of the first Death Star, the DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station was the second and final Death Star constructed by the Galactic Empire and was designed to be more powerful than the original. During the Battle of Endor, the Death Star II's energy shield was destroyed and the Rebels used the unfinished superstructure of the battle station against it, destroying the weapon as they had its predecessor.
