    
I have a bad feeling about this…This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work. 
This article or section needs to be cleaned up to conform to a higher standard of article quality. ({{Cleanup}})
This article or section is in need of referencing per Wookieepedia's sourcing guidelines.
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{Update}}) The article needs to be updated with Dooku: Jedi Lost, Justice, Choices, Resolve, Padawan, Master & Apprentice, The Sith Lord Age of Republic - Jango Fett 1, Age of Republic - Count Dooku 1, Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade, Queen's Hope, Brotherhood, Hyperspace Stories 11, Hyperspace Stories 5, Galactic Tales: Saber Truth, Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales, Dooku Captured, The Zillo Beast, Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission, Worthless, Separation Anxiety Part One, Separation Anxiety, Part Two, Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel, Ghosts of the Machine, Tales of Villainy: Trade Relations, Tales of Villainy: Give & Take, Bane's Story, Darth Vader (2017) 14, The Ghosts of Maul, Star Wars (2015) 15, Obi-Wan 3, Star Wars: Yoda: Students of the Force, Yoda 10, Vergence, The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku, Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded, Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy, Star Wars Helmet Collection 8, Star Wars Helmet Collection 15, Lightsabers and Jedi Equipment, Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!.
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's talk page for more information.







DookuDarth Tyranus


Biographical information

Homeworld
Serenno


Born
102 BBY, Serenno


Died
19 BBY, Invisible Hand, Coruscant system



Descriptive information

Species
Human (Serennian)


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.93 meters


Mass
86 kilograms


Hair color
Black, later white


Eye color
BrownYellow and red (vision; dark side)


Skin color
Light



Family information

Family
House Serenno


Parent(s)
AnyaGora


Sibling(s)
JenzaRamil



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Jedi OrderHawk-Bat ClanThranta ClanJedi High CouncilGalactic RepublicNumidian Prime strike teamLost TwentySithIndependent Movement for Self-DeterminationConfederacy of Independent SystemsSeparatist high command


Masters
Yoda (Jedi Master)Darth Sidious (Sith master)


Apprentices
Rael Averross (Jedi)Qui-Gon Jinn (Jedi)Unidentified Padawan (Jedi)Grievous (lightsaber apprentice)Asajj Ventress (Sith apprentice and assassin)Savage Opress (Sith apprentice)Quinlan Vos (Sith apprentice)


[Source]



"I want only to bring peace and order to the galaxy."
―Dooku
Count Dooku was a Force-sensitive Serennian human male who served as a Jedi Master during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. Shortly after the Battle of Naboo, he became dissatisfied with the Jedi Order and fell to the dark side of the Force, becoming the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Tyranus. After leaving the Jedi Order, he served as Count of Serenno and Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. He was the second apprentice of Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith, whose plan to conquer the galaxy relied on Dooku leading a pan-galactic secessionist movement against the Republic and the Jedi Order, as he saw both factions as corrupt. As such, Dooku immersed himself in the dark side of the Force and worked tirelessly to advance his and his master's plans, but ultimately forgot that treachery was the way of the Sith, while also being unaware that he was just a pawn of his master, who viewed him as no more than an expendable piece in his grand plan.
Born in 102 BBY during the late High Republic Era, Dooku was taken by the Jedi Order after being abandoned by his family and learned the Jedi arts as the Padawan of Yoda, the legendary Grand Master of the Jedi Order. A political idealist, the corruption in the Galactic Senate—as well as the traditions of the Jedi—disillusioned him, causing Dooku to leave the Order and return to his homeworld, where he reclaimed his title of Count and heritage as a nobleman after overthrowing his corrupt brother, Ramil. His former peers believed his decision was misguided but still held him in high esteem. However the Count of Serenno began to secretly conspire with Darth Sidious, before abandoning his commitment to the light side of the Force after the death of Qui-Gon Jinn by Darth Maul, becoming the Dark Lord's next apprentice and adopting the title of Darth Tyranus. Throughout the first decade of Sheev Palpatine's chancellery, Dooku used his resources and charisma to recruit entire star systems to the Separatist cause. At the same time, he oversaw the development of two vast armies that would be pitted against each other in the conflict to come: the Separatist Droid Army, which consisted entirely of battle droids manufactured on Geonosis; and the Grand Army of the Republic, composed of clone troopers bred on Kamino and modeled on the bounty hunter Jango Fett.
After years of maneuvering the galaxy into a state of war, the Clone Wars began when the newly formed Republic Military invaded Geonosis in 22 BBY. As leader of the Separatists, Dooku delegated military authority to a cadre of subordinates personally trained by himself, including General Grievous and Asajj Ventress. While Grievous was trained only in the art of lightsaber combat, Ventress was strong with the Force, affording her the opportunity to learn the ways of the dark side from Dooku. The Sith, however, remained faithful to Darth Bane's Rule of Two; and as such, Dooku was compelled to betray his disciple after Sidious became suspicious of his own apprentice's intentions. Though he sought to replace Ventress with Savage Opress and later Quinlan Vos, Dooku ultimately remained beholden to his master's will, which would eventually be his undoing. 
By the third year of the war, Dooku and Grievous succeeded in abducting Chancellor Palpatine (per Sidious' plan) from the Republic capital of Coruscant in 19 BBY. During the ensuing Battle of Coruscant, he was confronted and defeated by the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, who summarily executed the Count via beheading at the Chancellor's behest. In the days following Dooku's death, Palpatine revealed to the Jedi that he was, in fact, Darth Sidious, who betrayed his apprentice in order to replace him with the younger and more powerful Skywalker. With the subsequent fall of the Jedi Order, Sidious consolidated his power upon declaring himself Emperor of the Galactic Empire, which Tyranus had an instrumental role in establishing. As for Skywalker, he succeeded the late Darth Tyranus as Sidious' third and last apprentice, resulting in his transformation into Darth Vader and proving his slain victim's words of sensing fear, hate and anger.

Biography
Early life
Jedi induction and initiation
Dooku was born in 102 BBY during the High Republic Era, on the planet Serenno to the planet's ruler, Count Gora, and his wife, Countess Anya. The child's Force-sensitivity manifested itself rapidly, scaring his father, who hated and feared those he dismissed as "freaks." Gora contacted the Jedi Order and told them to take his son. However, instead of waiting for the Jedi seekers to arrive, Gora abandoned the infant outside his palace on the edges of the forest without clothes or any form of identification. A seeker rescued Dooku before he froze to death or was eaten by spine-wolves, and brought the child to the Jedi Grand Temple on Coruscant.

Life as a youngling
     Dooku was raised in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, where he learned the ways of the Force alongside other younglings.  
Dooku was integrated into Hawk-Bat Clan alongside fellow younglings Zang Arraira, Arath Tarrex, and Sifo-Dyas, under the direction of the Jedi Master Tera Sinube. During his time as a Jedi youngling, he continuously strove to excel, working himself hard to achieve better results than his peers and always striving to remain within the boundaries of the rules set by his teachers. Dooku therefore distanced himself from the other younglings rather than try to befriend them. His talents made him clash with fellow youngling Tarrex, largely due to the latter's jealousy over Dooku's superior abilities. Tarrex frequently insulted Dooku, calling him 'His Excellency' due to his imperious and somewhat aristocratic manner. Dooku and Sifo-Dyas were close friends during their time as younglings, and on one occasion in 90 BBY accompanied Grand Master Yoda and Masters Sinube and Yula Braylon to Serenno for the galactic festival being held there with other Jedi in tow.
As the Masters were demonstrating the proper lightsaber stances, a pair of children set off some thunderburst caps and ran off, Dooku thought he recognized one of them and followed them out to the fairgrounds. There he found the two being harassed by a trio of thugs that were threatening to kidnap them, Dooku used his Force powers and an electroblade to force the criminals to back off. Afterwards, the pair introduced themselves as Jenza and Ramil, though the latter was less than thankful for the Jedi's assistance. When she learned Dooku was from Serenno, Jenza offered to give Dooku a tour of the homeworld he never knew.
They explored the celebration together playing games and tasting the food, becoming fast friends as they got to know each other. Eventually, Jenza took Dooku to the Great Assembly, where she showed him the seals of the seven houses and told him the legend of how her ancestors liberated the planet from the Sith Empire. Though before they could leave Dooku felt drawn to an ancient carving of a beast, that was identified by Jenza as a Tirra'Taka. Ignoring her warning that it was bad luck, he moved to touch it, and as his finger brushed the stone, a groundquake caused the building around them to collapse.
Though Dooku attempted to lift the debris off of them himself, it took the intervention of Master Yoda to free the the two from the rubble. Once the other Masters helped the Grand Master remove the collapsed structure from the area, Count Gora of Serenno furiously confronted Yoda when he heard Dooku's name being voiced, yelling at the Jedi that he never wished to see his son again. It was here that the young Jedi learned that Gora was his Father and Jenza his sister.
Shocked and confused by his father's behavior, Dooku later questioned Yoda about how he was brought into the Jedi Order. The elder Jedi revealed that Gora had contacted the Jedi upon discovering his son's Force-sensitivity, and that he had left Dooku outside his castle walls without clothes or identification. Dooku would learn shortly after that being left on the edge of the forest put him at risk of being eaten alive by Spine-wolves had he not been found. Upon arriving back at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, his injuries were quickly healed and the young Jedi quickly threw himself back into his training. Dooku using this practice to vent his frustrations at Count Gora for abandoning him, and furthermore to think deeply about what he might have been if he had never become a Jedi. At this time an attendant arrived with a communications device that would allow him to speak to his sister, and they stayed in contact for many years.
Two years later, after a lesson in the Jedi Archives Sifo-Dyas revealed to Dooku he had come into possession of the journal of the expelled Jedi; Klias Teradine, which revealed to him the existence of the Bogan Collection inside the Jedi Archives. Sifo convinced Dooku that they should break in to see the dark side artifacts. Dooku later used sand levitation to get past the magnetic lock. There they witnessed many dark objects, weapons, and scrolls the Jedi had collected over their history. Dooku in particular was drawn to a piece of metal that seemed to connect him to the same Tirra'Taka he had first encountered on Serenno. This frightened the boy, who lashed out through the Force and accidentally threw Sifo-Dyas through a cabinet, alerting the Chief Librarian, Restelly Quist, to their actions.
The two initiates were brought to the infirmary where Sifo's injuries were treated, and they were confronted by Masters Yoda and Braylon, who each expressed a deep disappointment in how they had broken the rules and betrayed their trust. As the Masters were lecturing them, their discussion was interrupted by the arrival of Lene Kostana, who expressed great concern over the security of the Bogan Collection since two younglings had been able to break in. Dooku and Sifo-Dyas watched the Masters debate their conflicting views on how best to train the next generation to confront the Dark Side. Afterwards, they were assigned to decipher the Lothal Papyri, a collection of agricultural treatises, under the watchful eyes of Librarian Quist. As they served their penance, they had another encounter with Lene Kostana who was surprised that Yoda was still using the same treatises as punishment for misbehaved younglings, and playfully referred to the Grand Master as a goblin which offended Dooku. As she left, Sifo-Dyas discovered she slipped him a book: The Bestiary of Darth Caldoth. Dooku encouraged his friend to tell someone about the text, but Sifo refused.
This event greatly disturbed Dooku, who began to think Master Kostana might secretly be a Sith, one day he confronted her on the contemplation balcony demanding to know why she gave his friend the Sith script. She said the book was a test, though Dooku sensed a great deal of frustration and anger in her which he believed legitimized his theory. The two engaged in a short duel, during which Master Kostana played an act of goading him on, using the tale of Darth Sakia as a lesson by comparing Dooku's curved-hilt lightsaber to the fictional Sith's weapon, and revealing she was aware of Dooku's curious connection to the Tirra'Taka. Unfortunately Kostana quickly lost control of the situation as Dooku began a frenzy of attacks that began wearing down her defenses. Their fight was broken up by the timely intervention of Master Yoda who calmed the initiate down and convinced him that he had jumped to conclusions. The Grand Master then chided the Altiri on her constant need to test the initiates by exposing them to dark side artifacts. Following this event Dooku began to spend more time with Master Kostana, as he started to look to her as a mentor figure, since he took a great deal of interest in her work studying the dark side, her theories concerning the Sith, and even her pet convor Ferana. He visited her nearly every time she returned to the Temple following her missions.

The Grand Master's apprentice

"Perhaps the best Padawan of your generation, you were.""Are you resorting to flattery, Master Yoda? Besides, I recall getting into more trouble than any other Padawan of my generation.""Yes. And a valuable perspective, this gives you."
―Yoda and Dooku reflect on their time together as master and apprentice
     At one point in time, Dooku was the Padawan of Yoda, the Grand Master of the Jedi Order.  
In 86 BBY, Dooku later completed his Initiate Trials and hoped to be selected as the Padawan apprentice to Lene Kostana due to her mission in hunting down relics associated with the dark side. During the Padawan Tournament, Dooku fought and defeated Sifo-Dyas in a duel with one hand behind his back and blindfolded. However, Kostana selected Sifo-Dyas as her apprentice which upset Dooku, though this disappointment subsided when he learned that Yoda had decided to take him as his apprentice.
A strong bond developed between Dooku and Yoda as his training continued. On one occasion, Yoda took Dooku on a voyage to Lahsbane in the Mid Rim as part of his training. During a mission to Kashyyyk, Dooku watched as his master faced a giant Terentatek.

Sifo-Dyas' vision

"Sifo-Dyas understood. He saw the future. That is why he helped me."
―Count Dooku
Sometime around 85 BBY, Sifo-Dyas received a Force vision of a deadly solar storm hitting the planet Protobranch. After informing the Jedi Council, Dooku supported Sifo-Dyas and Kostana's suggestion that they warn the planet, but was forbidden to by Yoda and the Council, who pointed out that Force visions were not absolute and the future was always in motion.
Frustrated with the Council, Dooku, Kostana, and Sifo-Dyas went behind the Council's back to inform Tavetti, the senator who represented Protobranch, of the vision. During the conversation, Dooku was slightly unnerved by Tavetti only expressing concern for Protobranch's resources rather than its people. Afterwards, Dooku, Kostana, Sifo-Dyas and a reluctant Yoda went to the planet itself. Ultimately, Sifo-Dyas' vision came to pass; a powerful solar storm hit Protobranch, killing much of the population, with the Jedi themselves barely surviving.
The events with Protobranch shook Dooku's respect for the Republic and the Jedi Council, feeling the latter was somewhat responsible for the deaths that occurred by not taking Sifo-Dyas' vision seriously and refusing to act quicker. He was also disgusted by the fact that the Republic's primary concern was the loss of Protobranch's resources and not its inhabitants.

Funeral of Anya
Around 82 BBY, a twenty year old Dooku attended the funeral of his mother, Anya, on Serenno. It was here that his father Gora physically and verbally assaulted him, referring to his son as a "freak." Shortly afterward, Dooku joined Sifo-Dyas and his master Kostana on a mission to track down a relic on Asusto. However, the pair were led into a trap by the Presagers of Hakotei who tricked them into following a supposed trail of Sith artifacts from Karazak. Dooku was briefly captured by the Presagers to be used as part of a dark side ritual. It was during his brief captivity that he experienced a series of visions of his future, and he used Force lightning for the first time in order to kill his captors. After which Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas taught him a cleansing ritual involving arm wrappings that was designed to keep him centered in the force.

Jedi Master
Attaining the rank

"You know, My Lady, Count Dooku was once a Jedi. He couldn't assassinate anyone. It's not in his character."
―Mace Windu, to Padmé Amidala
Between 82 BBY and 78 BBY, Dooku completed his training with Yoda and became a Jedi Knight and eventually Jedi Master, rising to be one of the greatest Jedi of his generation. A veteran of many galactic conflicts, known for his exceptional skills as a lightsaber duelist. He would take Rael Averross as his Padawan, training him for 10 years and to Knighthood. Dooku had also set aside his first blade and created his own curved-hilt lightsaber, which produced a blue blade. Dooku used his lightsaber when he and Yoda demonstrated their lightsaber skills to a group of younglings, amongst them the Togorian Jak'zin. Furthermore, Dooku was the main lightsaber instructor for Thranta Clan.
Dooku also rendered aid to Mother Talzin of the Nightsisters, who were based on the world of Dathomir, giving her a lock of his hair.

Training Qui-Gon

"Qui-Gon Jinn would never join you.""Don't be so sure, my young Jedi. You forget that he was once my apprentice, just as you were once his."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Count Dooku
     Dooku was the Jedi Master of Qui-Gon Jinn, who eventually achieved the same rank in the Jedi Order.  
In 68 BBY, Dooku having finished training Averross by this point, would take a 12-year-old Qui-Gon Jinn as his second Padawan. On the evening of Qui-Gon being assigned to him, Jinn presented himself to his new Master in Dooku's quarters, Dooku observed that Jinn was frightened. After a moment of silence, and pressing him, Jinn confessed that he was. He asked his apprentice why and after looking into himself through the fear, Jinn answered that he was not afraid of Dooku, but of not becoming a Jedi, that he was afraid of failing. Of not being worthy. Dooku then summarized it as Jinn being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Jinn confirmed it, fearing that Dooku will reject him for his apparent cowardice. Dooku instead said that it was very wise, surprising Jinn. Smiling, he would explain that most Padawans would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Jinn's self-knowledge. He then further praised Jinn for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.
To help Jinn understand the Jedi Temple more completely, Dooku decided to take him throughout most of the Temple, including the Padawans' sparring dojo, and the one for full Jedi Knights, and the Great Assembly Room. Their last stop was the Jedi Archives, where they examined holocrons of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Jinn to learn his way around. While doing so, a particularly old holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Jinn's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Dooku's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Dooku answered that it was a holocron of Jedi prophecies. Jinn asked if there were Jedi prophets, to which Dooku replied not any longer. He explained to Jinn that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future which led them down dangerous paths. Those drawn too deeply into them were often tempted by the dark side. Dooku then finished by saying that is why the Jedi study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Jinn had to follow. Jinn then asked Dooku if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Dooku simply replied that it takes more than that.
After training Qui-Gon for several months the Council sent him with his apprentice to Shurrupak to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. When they landed on the surface the encountered his first apprentice, Rael Averross, whom Dooku introduced to his new apprentice. Eventually, a strike team, including Dooku and Jinn, was assembled and sent to find notorious Falleen Bounty hunter Shenda Mol. They tracked her to the planet Numidian Prime where she had a stronghold and a handful of followers. After her followers were rounded up, it was left to Dooku and Jinn to bring Mol in. Whilst searching for her hideout, Jinn was captured by Mol, but before she could kill him, he was saved by Dooku who struck her with Force lightning. Jinn later told Rael Averross what Dooku had done, but he was unconcerned.

Search for a senator's son

"I wonder if any meaningful change will come of this.""Is that why you took action into your own hands?""Your actions saved many lives today.""Just thinking in the moment, Master.""Well, then. You're a much wiser man than I, Qui-Gon Jinn."
―Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn after confronting Senator Dagonet
On a mission to rescue the abducted son of Senator Dagonet, one of the Republic's longest serving members, Dooku and Jinn traveled to the Senator's home planet. To the stoic Jedi master and young Padawan's surprise, the planet's surface was little more than a wasteland which had been completely stripped of its natural resources and ravaged by over-industrialization. The two Jedi headed for a barren village in the distance. As they walked through the village, not a single resident dared step outside of their homes nor answer Qui-Gon's questions, which prompted them to enter the local inn. Fearless and keeping his unperplexed Jedi manner, Dooku immediately asked for the abducted child of the Senator twice. One of the villagers questioned why she should tell them, to which Dooku responded by producing his lightsaber. Once the villagers realized that Dooku and Qui-Gon were Jedi, Dooku stated their intention to resolve the situation and Qui-Gon assured the villagers that they were not acting on behalf of the Senator, which prompted the villager to ask how much they knew of the Senator. She explained that the village's desolate surroundings were proof that the Senator, who might have had good intentions at the beginning, had begun to neglect his people. Qui-Gon asked the villager why the people did not simply elect a new Senator, to which she replied that things were not so easy. She then agreed to show the Jedi where the Senator's son was located. At this point, Qui-Gon and Dooku were surprised to discover that virtually every visitor present at the inn had been involved in the kidnapping.

     Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn attempt to locate Senator Dagonet's son.  
Escorted to a barn, the Jedi found the Senator's son restrained and surrounded by a droid and armed villagers. Dooku asked if the boy had been harmed, and having been assured that he had not, asked what the boy knew of the villagers' living conditions. The boy did not blame them for kidnapping him as he sympathized with their circumstance. At that point a villager entered and informed the group that Senator Dagonet had arrived with dozens of armed soldiers. The villagers immediately accused the Jedi of leading them into a trap, but Dooku calmed them by stating that their investigation was unknown to the Senator. Outside, Jedi and kidnappers watched as the Senator handed bread to the villager who had given up his son's location. One of the kidnappers remarked that many in the village would have done the same. Senator Dagonet ordered Dooku and Qui-Gon to apprehend the villagers and release his son at once. Placing himself between the Senator and his people, Dooku tried to calm the escalating tension by stating that their investigation was incomplete. The prideful Senator demanded his son's release, to which Dooku responded that the young man was in no immediate danger and that further investigation was needed. Unwilling to delay any longer, the Senator ordered his men to prepare to attack the villagers, which caused the villagers to raise their own weapons. The Senator then gave the Jedi one more chance to step aside, but Dooku refused. Dagonet claimed that the Jedi were supposed to serve him, but Dooku corrected him and stated that the Jedi served the people of the Republic, not its leaders. His patience exhausted, the frustrated Senator commanded his soldiers to aim and be ready to open fire. In an effort to protect the villagers, the two Jedi ignited their lightsabers.
A firefight erupted, and the precise shots of the soldiers began to overwhelm the kidnappers while the Jedi could only defend themselves and watch the ensuing massacre. After finishing off most of the villagers, Senator Dagonet stopped his soldiers. Dooku, finding himself surrounded by citizens of the Republic who had been killed by their own leader, felt a sense of righteous anger which led him to tap into the Dark Side of the Force. As the Senator proclaimed that he would not be deterred by anyone, he was stopped mid-sentence as his throat began to constrict from Dooku's sudden Force choke. Alarmed, Qui-Gon tried to stop his master, but Dooku Force pushed him back into the door of the barn and continued to torture the arrogant Senator. The remaining soldiers were unable to resist the Jedi Master as he approached and stood in front of the struggling Senator, who had collapsed on the ground as he struggled to breath. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon, sensing only one opportunity to save the Senator's life, rushed back into the barn and freed his son. Dooku, who had given in completely to the Dark Side in his desire to eradicate corruption, would have killed the defenseless Senator, but the Senator's son rushed forward and begged the Jedi to stop. As Qui-Gon told Dooku it was over, Dooku finally regained his composure and let go of Senator Dagonet.
In the aftermath, the Senator left the planet with his son, who promised to make things right for his people. The villagers nodded in gratitude for the Jedi's efforts as they started to rebuild their village. Dooku proclaimed his doubts that anything would change as a result of this ordeal, which made his Padawan question if that was his master's motivation to take action. Dooku congratulated Qui-Gon's success in saving so many lives. His Padawan stated it was just a matter on focusing on the moment, which made Dooku warmly acknowledge him as a much wiser man than himself as they walked to their ship.

Fighting his own way

"Your ideology, while faulty, does have its points.""I'm surprised to hear that from a Jedi."[…] "I don't condone your methods, but you had every right to protect your planet. Make sure your people don't lose heart and evolve, Semage. It is the only way you will truly have victory. I say that for all of us."
―Dooku and Semage, after the latter was detained for killing a Senator and a Jedi
Sometime between 50 BBY and 42 BBY, Dooku and fellow Jedi Master Mace Windu were given instructions to return the body of Master Katri, who had been killed in an ambush on Raxus Secundus, to the Jedi temple so she could have a proper burial. Dooku was suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Katri's death, as no reason behind it, nor the identity of her murderers, was known. Furthermore, since the Raxus Senator, Larik had been present during the ambush, Dooku wondered how he had survived when Katri, a fully-trained Jedi Master, hadn't. Because of his suspicions, Dooku believed they needed to do more to honor Katri and investigate her death, but Windu was firm in his beliefs that the rules were there for a reason.
The pair eventually touched down on Raxus Secundus, where they met with Senator Larik, who said he was there with Katri at the time of her death. Dooku asked Larik to explain what happened, but the senator acted cagey and Dooku noticed elements of his story didn't line up. Windu shared this belief and concern and wanted to take the information to the Jedi Council. Dooku, however, wanted to follow the lead himself. They all headed off together to meet an informant at the place where Katri and Larik were supposedly ambushed, following Dooku's plan. Examining the crime scene, the Dooku and Windu deduced there were more than one attacker, but also noticed that there were no blaster marks on the Senator's ship. Suspecting that the senator might've had something to do with Katri's death, Dooku ignited his lightsaber and scathingly demanded the truth. Terrified, Larik immediately turned and admitted that the guards killed Katri, but he was shot dead instantly for uttering the truth.
Dooku and Windu were also attacked by the guards, but they got the better of the men and their droids, defeated them. When they got the final man, Semage, down on his knees, he admitted that they killed Katri because the group he was operating within had learned Larik was using his Senate seat to become rich at the expense of their planet, industrializing it and selling it off piece by piece. Semage explained to Dooku and Windu that the reason they kept Larik alive was to make him enact their own rules at the next Senate hearing meeting to reverse the damage done. When Windu questioned why Semage didn't inform Katri of Larik's corruption, Semage insisted that though the Jedi claimed to bring peace, they were really only at the whim of the Senate, and only kept law and order for the rich. The pair eventually put Semage in lockup, but Dooku understood how he felt and decided to go to his cell to meet him, telling him that while he didn't condone his methods, he believed they had a right to protect their planet. Dooku also told him to make sure his people continued to evolve and did not lose heart, telling him that it was the only way to ensure victory.
Having solved Katri's murder, Dooku and Windu brought her body back to the Jedi temple, where she was honored and cremated in a ceremony. After the funeral, Dooku approached Windu to ask if he had been offered Master Katri's council seat, as rumors claimed that he had. When Windu confirmed that it was the case, a suspicious Dooku questioned if Windu was aware Katri's position was open before they left for Raxus. Insisting that he had no idea about it before taking the case, Windu explained that he believed he had been given the seat over Dooku because Dooku did not stick to the mission and acted in a way that led to a senator's death. Nevertheless, Windu told Dooku that he would speak to the Council on his behalf. Dooku was more resentful than grateful but thanked him nonetheless.

Conspiracy in the Council
Years of training with Qui-Gon yielded a strong relationship between him and Dooku, with the Padawan following his Master's unique Jedi traits such idealism, individual instinct and being willing to act against the Jedi High Council, serving the people of the galaxy first and foremost, not the senate. Where their visions differed however, were that Dooku focused more on the future of the galaxy and feared the Jedi Order followed the policies of the Senate as actual law, rather than the principal of being the advocates of peace and justice which their institution were founded on. Qui-Gon also shared Dooku's skepticism for the Council's viewpoints and would also learn to follow his own ideas at times. However, Qui-Gon believed in concentrating on the will of the Force which he meant was the present, never the future.[source?]
Shortly before Qui-Gon's trials between 49 BBY and 44 BBY, the pair were invited by council member Jor Aerith to join her in representing the Jedi at the annual Coruscant Dragonfire Air Rally in hopes of making a good impression on the Candovant ambassador who had invited her. Dooku and Master Yula Braylon expressed frustration at the Council's obsession with politics, but Aerith pointed out Dooku's charisma made him a natural conversationalist, for which she was not.
Dooku agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach his apprentice some Candovant customs, but while he was there, he ran into his brother Ramil who was participating in the race. Dooku questioned why he as the heir to the Serrenian throne was racing, but the older man dismissed him. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his Airspeeder was sabotaged and it crashed. Dooku and his apprentice discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a Jenet crime boss named Cenevax. Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Dooku deduced that she had a spy on the Council.
Calling the Temple Guard, Dooku escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber where he made his accusation, the Council was disturbed by this but through the Force he sensed Yula Braylon's guilt. Igniting his lightsaber, he called her out, and in return she ignited hers and asked Dooku if he intended to kill her. Relenting, he stated he simply wanted justice and placed her under arrest. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex was in fact her son. Dooku and Qui Gon confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. Braylon's actions caused her to be removed from the council. When it was done, Dooku inquired into what would happen to Cenevax and Yoda informed him she would be taken to the Citadel on Lola Sayu. Dooku was dismayed at the prospect of the Jedi taking the law into their own hands, as well as Master Braylon's mistrust of the Jedi Order which brought her into that situation in the first place. His faith in the order was shaken once again. Dooku was then offered a seat on the Council, which he accepted, as he felt change needed to come to the order from within.

Losing faith
Eventually, Qui-Gon graduated to knighthood and went on to become a Master himself. He later took a Padawan: Obi-Wan Kenobi. Dooku maintained some contact with Jinn, who spoke very highly about his apprentice Kenobi to his former master. At some stage, Dooku took on another pupil. She later fell to the dark side and needed to be killed, having become considered an embarrassment. She created two red-bladed lightsabers that Dooku held on to after his death. Over time, Dooku became disillusioned with the Republic due to its corruption and believed that the Jedi Order had become too connected to the government.

Leaving the Jedi Order

"The Jedi have been my family since I was a child, the Temple my home. But my future lies here, on Serenno."
―Dooku, to Yoda
     Dooku became a Jedi renunciate, leaving the Order despite his years as a Jedi and the bond he once shared with his former Master.  
At some point in 42 BBY, Averross introduced Dooku to the Naboo senator Sheev Palpatine, who was secretly the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, on Coruscant after Dooku delivered an address to the Galactic Senate. He then returned to his ancestral home of Serenno with Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas after his sister Jenza pleaded for his help. Dooku became embroiled in the invasion of Serenno, caused by his brother, Count Ramil, who had hired Abyssin mercenaries to attack the planet to turn its people against the Republic. In the ensuring battle, Dooku killed Ramil.
Reclaiming the title of Count of Serenno after killing his brother, Dooku also took possession of his family fortune, one of the largest in the galaxy. Believing his people needed him, Dooku decided he needed to leave the Jedi to lead Serenno, feeling it was his responsibility after all his brother had done. Furthermore, the people of the planet had found new resources, a deposit of sacanium, which they could produce themselves. The Republic offered to help with the resources despite having previously decided the Abyssin crisis was an internal affair. Dooku rejected the Republic's aid, deciding the recovery of Serenno would also be an internal matter as well. Contacting Yoda, Dooku explained his choices to his mentor and remained steadfast in his choice to leave.
Although it saddened them, Yoda promised Dooku that choice was respected by the Jedi Council. When Dooku stated he would turn over his lightsaber, Yoda told him to keep the blade; his mentor explained that being a Jedi was more than a title, so he was to keep the weapon. After saying goodbye to Yoda, the count said goodbye to his old friend Sifo-Dyas, promising that they would see each other again. At the age of 60, Dooku had left the order. Dooku then became one of the Lost Twenty.

     Dooku's bust was cast to commemorate him as one of the Lost Twenty.  
Count of Serenno
Disappearing from public life
Despite his newfound wealth and power, however, Dooku all but disappeared from public life after his resignation. Due to the Count spending most time away from the eye of the public, most believed that he had gone into a sort of self-imposed exile with the intention of founding an offshoot of the Jedi Order. Dooku was, however, still welcome within the Temple on Coruscant due to his past as a Jedi. As such, he often returned to it and had meetings with the Council. One day in 41 BBY, he returned for one such meeting while the Council was feuding with Jinn.
However, at some point during this period, Dooku was approached by Darth Sidious, who saw the former Jedi as a potential leader for a Separatist movement. Using the Count's frustration with the Galactic Republic, the Dark Lord turned Dooku to the dark side. While Sidious already had a Sith apprentice in Darth Maul, he recruited Dooku to his cause. It is also during this period that Dooku shared with his former Padawan Rael Averross that he had discovered a great power that he wished to share with Averross. However, Averross rebuffed Dooku's offer and before cutting the transmission informed his former master that he had chosen the light and was not interested in what Dooku had to offer him. Over Dooku's many visits to the temple, Yoda failed to sense the growing darkness in his former pupil.

Aiding Sidious
After accepting Sidious' offer, Dooku helped his new ally to implement much of the groundwork necessary to begin the Clone Wars, even using his access to the Jedi Temple to further the Sith plan. The most important project that he oversaw during that time was the creation of a clone army intended for use by the Republic during the planned war. It was unknown how the Sith had learned about the army, but Dooku would later claim his old friend Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas had willingly brought him into the fold to help establish it. Greatly troubled by the Republic's tumultuous political situation and the Jedi Council's apparent complacency, Dyas ordered the clone army from the Kaminoans, which Dyas hoped to hold in reserve in case of civil war. After this was done, Dooku needed to make certain that Sifo-Dyas would remain silent about the army. Acting under the name "Tyranus," he betrayed his friend by contacting Lom Pyke of the Pyke Syndicate and instructing him to murder Sifo-Dyas by way of shooting down his shuttle during a mission, after which Dooku was given Sifo-Dyas' body.
Dooku took Dyas' body to the planet Felucia, which was in the midst of a conflict the Jedi had ordered Dyas to stop. Once there, Dooku made it seem like the two of them had been dispatched together to solve the crisis. Dooku made it seem like Dyas died in the local conflict, and the body was burned by the native Felucians. However, unbeknownst to Dooku, another person had been in Dyas' shuttle; the Pykes had captured Valorum's aide, Silman, and imprisoned him as insurance against possible betrayal by Dooku.

Visiting the Temple

"Master Yaddle is right about one thing. A Sith Lord is not to be trifled with. And I will not be there to protect you, my old Padawan.""You need not worry, Master. Obi-Wan fills that role now. He acquits himself quite well.""That's good. I should like to meet him someday. You're always singing his praises."
―Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn after the latter first encountered Darth Maul
In 32 BBY, Dooku visited the Jedi Temple and secretly entered the Jedi Archives, where he used Sifo Dyas' authorization to erase data on the existence of the planet Kamino, where the clone army Dyas had ordered was being developed. After doing so, he noticed commotion between the Jedi within the archives and asked Jedi archivist Jocasta Nu about it, who informed him that his former Padawan Qui-Gon Jinn had encountered with an alleged Sith Lord on the Outer Rim planet Tatooine. Qui-Gon and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, had traveled to the Mid Rim planet Naboo in an attempt to negotiate with Viceroy of the Trade Federation Nute Gunray to relinquish his blockade on the planet. Gunray, however, under orders from Sidious—who had engineered the conflict to get himself elected Supreme Chancellor—ordered for the two Jedi to be killed, though their attempts failed and the two Jedi managed to escape Naboo alongside its queen, Padmé Amidala. On their way to Coruscant, the crew made a stop at Tatooine, where they encountered Maul, whom they managed to evade.
Upon hearing that, Dooku commented to her that Jinn had an active imagination, which Nu reminded Dooku he once had. Remarking that such a quality was valued a lot less in the Jedi Temple, Dooku left the Archives and found his way to Jinn, who was walking through the Temple halls with Master Yaddle, to ask him about the supposed Sith Lord he had encountered. Dooku guessed correctly that the Jedi Council had not wanted to believe that conclusion, adding that he had been warning them about the coming darkness for years and they had never taken him seriously. Yaddle, a council member, spoke up and insisted that, though she did not doubt his claim, they had found no reason to cause undue alarm, adding that the advice and decision of the Council was to be cautious until they knew more. While neither Jinn nor Yaddle were aware of Dooku's firsthand knowledge, the former Jedi warned them, especially Jinn, to act with caution when encountering a Sith, reminding his former Padawan that he would no longer be there to protect him. Jinn assured him that Kenobi, whom Dooku had never met but wanted to due to Jinn's high praise of the young man, looked out for him. After Jinn left, Yaddle noticed Dooku appeared conflicted, leading the two to muse about how quickly their students grew up before Dooku left.

Becoming Darth Tyranus
The apprentice of a Dark Lord

Sidious: "Remember what you told me. The Jedi blindly serve a corrupt Senate that fails the Republic it represents. Do you want to prove your loyalty? Kill her!"
Yaddle: "There's still a chance to make things right."
Dooku: "I'm afraid..."
Yaddle: "I know you are."
Dooku: "I'm afraid it's too late."
―Darth Sidious, Yaddle and Dooku
     Master Yaddle finds Count Dooku in front of the Great Tree.  
Not long after, Qui-Gon, Kenobi, and Queen Amidala returned to Naboo and repelled the Federation Invasion, though Maul killed Qui-Gon in the process. Upon hearing the news, Dooku visited the Great Tree in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant once again to reflect on his death, as he had taken a young Jinn to the tree often, the boy being fascinated by it because he had been born on Coruscant and had known nothing like it. He recounted this to Master Yaddle, who had approached him there and Yaddle informed him that Jinn's funeral was to be held on Naboo and that the council would be traveling to attend, but Dooku informed her that he would not be attending, as he believed his presence would not be enjoyed or welcome. She asked if he blamed the council for Jinn's death, but Dooku only said that he had become one with the Force and it was thus time to let him go. Yaddle asked if he was capable of doing this, but Dooku said he had no other choice. Dooku then left and traveled to his and Sidious' meeting place in The Works industrial zone on the planet to confront Sidious, furious that his ally's machinations had resulted in the death of his former apprentice.
Confronting the Sith Lord, Dooku accused Sidious of making him betray everything and everyone he had known. Sidious claimed that all of Dooku's actions had been in the service of a greater good and that his betrayal had been a necessary evil. Unbeknownst to Dooku, Yaddle had followed him in secret; after overhearing his conversation with Sidious, she confronted them and urged Dooku to surrender to her and help her defeat Sidious. Dooku hesitated initially but then, on Sidious' orders, engaged Yaddle in a lightsaber duel as a final test of loyalty. In spite of Yaddle's great effort, Dooku's nigh-unrivaled dueling capabilities quickly began to overwhelm her. Managing to hide behind Sidious' ship, Yaddle called out to Dooku, admitting that the Jedi Council had been wrong and informing him that as a result, she had chosen to step down from the body. Her last attempt at persuading Dooku failed, however, as he used the Force to shove away the ship that separated them. After another short exchange of blows, Yaddle retreated to the doorway leading back to her ship. As Dooku mocked her for "running back to the Council", Yaddle retorted the he had run straight into the arms of evil.
Angered, Dooku attacked Yaddle with greater ferocity and knocked her into the frame of the large doorway, temporarily stunning the much smaller Jedi Master. Dooku wasted no time and flipped the lever controlling the door, which came crashing down onto his former friend. Collapsing in anguish over what he had just done, Dooku was reassured by Sidious, who congratulated his new apprentice. To their shock, Yaddle suddenly reappeared, lifting the doorway off of herself in one final display of her immense Force power, which sapped her of remaining energy. Lying defenseless and exhausted at Dooku's feet, Yaddle stated that many would suffer under Dooku's scheme for galactic order. Dooku replied sarcastically that he would give Yaddle peace, then impaled her with his lightsaber, killing her instantly. Sidious then formally anointed Dooku as his new Sith apprentice and gave him the name Darth Tyranus, the same name Dooku had been using as his cover for some time. All the same, Dooku deemed it be a formidable name worthy of his power.

Setting the groundwork

"I'm sure you'll find the price the Kaminoans are offering is more than fair.""For my genetic template."
―Dooku and Jango Fett
     Dooku and his new Master conspired to grow a clone army, using the bounty hunter Jango Fett as a template.  
On one of the moons of Bogden, Dooku—under his alias Tyranus—recruited the bounty hunter Jango Fett as the template for the Clone Army. Along with a considerable salary, Dooku agreed to pay Fett with an unaltered clone for himself. Sifo-Dyas had bio-chips he wanted installed in the brain of each clone, as a safeguard against rogue Jedi's. To ensure the destruction of the Jedi at the right time, Sidious and Dooku retooled the chips in order to trigger a protocol called Order 66 that would forcibly brainwash the clones into murdering their Jedi superiors. Posing as a Jedi, Tyranus deceived the Kaminoans, most notably Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se, into believing Sifo Dyas' intention, while also telling them to keep this a secret. After hiring Fett, Dooku moved onto another phase of the Sith plan by beginning to bring together galactic-level businesses, as well as planets and peoples tired of the Galactic Republic, to create an alliance of Separatists. He did, also, lead the Independent Movement for Self-Determination, which allowed him to tour universities and give lectures.
Dooku, at the behest of Sidious, went to Sullust to discuss an alliance between the SoroSuub Corporation and himself. In truth, Dooku was to seek out the Kaldana Syndicate. After a tour of one of Sullust's cities, Dooku met newly knighted Jedi Jak'zin and was invited to dinner with him and Representative Kap Klyp. Dooku informed Sidious of this complication who told him to find out why Jak'zin was there. At dinner, Dooku denied rumors that he was creating another order of force users and assured Jak'zin that he was looking after his family's business interest on Serenno. Following dinner, Dooku followed Jak'zin and learned about the mission of learning about the Kaldana Syndicate. Dooku agreed to help Jak'zin on his mission. The two made their way into the syndicate's base. There, Dooku and Jak'zin discovered that the syndicate was smuggling weapons and were surrounded by the syndicate's gang. Dooku and Jak'zin fought the gangsters. After defeating the gangsters, Dooku killed Jak'zin and then spoke with the surviving gangsters. After making a deal with the syndicate, Dooku left Sullust.

Creating Grievous
At some point, Dooku discovered the Kaleesh warlord Grievous, formerly known as Qymaen jai Sheelal, who had previously shown to be a brilliant military leader and had a remarkable reputation as a successful warlord on his home world of Kalee. Dooku and Darth Sidious, his Sith Master, had seen Grievous's potential when he led his people in a war against their planetary neighbors, the Yam'rii, a greedy, technologically-advanced insectoid species from the planet Huk, located in the same system as Kalee. When the Kaleesh armies forced the Yam'rii from their home, the insects took a surprising move and sought assistance from the Galactic Republic, to which they and the Jedi responded, side with the Yam'rii against the invaders. The Kaleesh were condemned, embargoes and fines were imposed, and hundreds of thousands of them died of starvation. Grievous's hatred for the Republic and the Jedi intensified, and at the same time he developed a personal vendetta against the Republic and the Jedi for its aid to the Yam'rii, which prompted him to ally with the InterGalactic Clan. Grievous became an enforcer and was phenomenally successful, and the IGBC regarded him as one of their most important resources; however, his exploits had already piqued the interest of both Dooku and Sidious, who had big plans for him and wanted to test their experiment with technologically advanced beings.
Grievous' shuttle was gravely sabotaged, nearly killing him and destroying the majority of what remained of his original body. After that gruesome shuttle crash that left him fatally injured, Dooku offered the Kaleesh warrior life-saving surgery. The Count claimed that a Jedi was responsible for the sabotage, which fueled Grievous to accept reconstruction and return to military service, the General harbored a deep and fierce hatred of the Jedi, the Republic, and the Yam'rii; however, in truth, Dooku was directly responsible for Grievous' injuries and subsequent transformation. Under Dooku's direction, Separatist cybernetic experts and Geonosian biotechs nearly completely reconstructed Grievous. Dooku initially gave the general a weapon that belonged to a long-dead friend, a former Jedi, and had him spend hours upon hours studying holovids of Jedi in battle and reading all the training manuals he could furnish him with. Dooku continued to instruct Grievous in lightsaber combat, making him even more lethal. Grievous then modified and improved his cybernetic body throughout time and was soon unleashed on the galaxy.

Forming the Confederacy

"He is a political idealist, not a murderer."
―Ki-Adi-Mundi to Padmé Amidala
     Count Dooku instigated the Separatist movement to destabilize the Galactic Republic.  
While Dooku was involved in Grievous's construction as a cyborg and trained him in lightsaber combat, he also needed his own acolyte, an apprentice of sorts, Grievous was already allied with other Confederacy of Independent Systems members. Impressed by how she had conquered the planet Rattatak, Count Dooku recruited fallen Dathomirian Jedi Asajj Ventress to act as his assassin and Sith apprentice. After Ventress found her, Dooku also murdered his sister Jenza, ignoring her pleas to return to the light. Several years after his resignation from the Jedi Order and the death of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon Jinn, Dooku re-entered the public eye in a spectacular fashion, commandeering a Republic HoloNet station in the Raxus system and delivering a rousing speech in which he thoroughly lambasted the corruption and shortcomings of the Republic. In a galaxy in which many Outer and Mid Rim systems were chafing under the ineffectual and corrupt bureaucracy of the Republic, Dooku's speech set the stage for the Separatist movement.
Furthermore, he began meddling in the affairs of many planets, supporting anti-Republic coups on worlds such as Ryloth and interfering in the political processes of Kashyyyk and Onderon, among others. He also began to publicly rally systems and corporations to his cause to become the Confederacy of Independent Systems, and publicly spurned every opportunity to negotiate with Palpatine. At some point after the creation of the CIS, Dooku piloted his personal Sith Infiltrator to Dathomir. Dooku personally went to the planet Geonosis to renew the contract between Baktoid Armor Workshop and the Geonosians.
One of Dooku's first headquarters was established in the Tion Hegemony. While the sector was largely controlled by the House of Tion, Dooku's presence ensured it became a strong supporter of the CIS. During the time leading up to the Clone Wars, Dooku also met several times the governor of Eriadu, Wilhuff Tarkin, in an attempt to convince him to join the Separatist movement. He alluded to the governor that war was inevitable, and that he desired the support of the powerful Outer Rim world for his cause. In truth however, these meetings had been orchestrated by Palpatine to test Tarkin's loyalties, and Tarkin remained firm in this commitment to the Republic.
Dooku also promised Trade Federation Viceroy Gunray that he would assassinate Senator Amidala, whom Gunray despised, if he signed Dooku's treaty. Gunray accepted the offer; Dooku thus dispatched Jango Fett to carry out Amidala's assassination. Despite the failure of Fett's mission, Dooku was able to have the Trade Federation, the Banking Clan, the Techno Union, the Commerce Guild, and the Corporate Alliance all sign his treaty on Geonosis, formalizing the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Dooku assured them that the Jedi and the Republic would be overwhelmed by their combined forces.

The Clone Wars
Battle of Geonosis

"Fought well you have, my old Padawan.""This is just the beginning."
―Yoda and Count Dooku
     The Jedi confronted Dooku on Geonosis, where he was guarded by Jango Fett and an army of Separatist battle droids.  
The Separatists' assassination attempts on Amidala prompted an investigation by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi, who tracked Fett to Geonosis. There, Dooku was meeting with leaders of the commerce guilds, and listened as they pledged their assets to his Confederacy. Kenobi overheard their discussion, but was captured by droidekas while transmitting his findings back to the Republic. Dooku visited Kenobi in his prison cell, feigning shock at the Jedi's capture and inquiring as to his presence on Geonosis. Denying involvement with the bounty hunters, Dooku instead spoke of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon, suggesting that Jinn would have joined Dooku's movement had he learned the truth that the Sith were in control of the Senate. Though Obi-Wan refused to believe Dooku's words, just as Dooku predicted he would, the Count attempted to recruit him in apparent opposition to Darth Sidious, and left Kenobi to his fate when he rejected the offer.
Dooku oversaw the attempted execution of Amidala, Kenobi, and Skywalker in the Petranaki Arena, but proceedings were forestalled when Master Windu and his Jedi assault team arrived to rescue the condemned trio. Windu was soon outnumbered by battle droids, and Dooku watched as the Jedi were surrounded on the arena floor. He offered to spare their lives if they surrendered, but Windu refused. In a regretful tone, Dooku gave the order to terminate them, but the survivors were spared by Yoda's arrival with the clone army from Kamino. As war broke out across Geonosis, Dooku left for the Geonosian Command Center to oversee the growing Battle of Geonosis.

     Dooku fought against Yoda before retreating as Geonosis fell to the Republic's clone forces.  
As he arrived, Dooku claimed he had no idea how the Republic had gained its army and helped command the defense, assuring Poggle that his Master would not let the Republic get away with the invasion, but eventually chose to retreat. Before leaving, Dooku was given the designs to the ultimate weapon by Archduke Poggle the Lesser, assuring him that the designs would be safe with his Master. Escaping on his speeder with an escort of two Geonosian fighters, Dooku made for his secret hangar but was pursued by Kenobi and Skywalker's gunship.
As Dooku prepared to leave, he was confronted by Kenobi and Skywalker. He subdued Skywalker with Force lightning and fought Kenobi, eventually overpowering and wounding him in the shoulder and leg. As Dooku prepared to make his killing move, Skywalker leapt into the battle. The two fought until Dooku cut off Skywalker's right arm, but Yoda again arrived to save his allies. Dooku engaged in a Force duel with his old master and, unable to best him, challenged Yoda to a lightsaber battle. The fighting was fierce but brief, and cut short when Dooku brought down a pillar over Kenobi and Skywalker, forcing Yoda to break off his attack to save them. Dooku fled in his solar sailer as his forces retreated into space.

     Tyranus reported directly to Sidious on Coruscant, confirming that the Clone Wars had begun as intended by the Sith Lords.  
Tyranus rendezvoused with Sidious, who was very impressed, in The Works on Coruscant, informing him that the war had begun as planned. Dooku and his Master recruited the cyborg General Grievous to lead the droid army. Grievous was trained by Dooku in the Jedi arts, using lightsabers taken from his Jedi kills. When the Bryx sector seceded, Dooku placed General Horn Ambigene on Pzandias. He also named Ambigene the Commander of Organic Training. Later, Dooku commanded his droid army to seize control of the major hyperspace routes following Geonosis, separating the Republic from the majority of its army.

Dealings with the Hutts

"Soon, the Jedi will not only be at war with you, Count, but with the Hutt clan as well."
―Darth Sidious, to Count Dooku —  Listen (file info)
     Dooku fought with Anakin Skywalker, a rising Jedi Knight and the prophesied Chosen One, on several occasions during the war.  
Intending to bring the Hutt Clan into the Confederacy, Dooku made a deal with Ziro, uncle of Jabba the Hutt, to have Jabba's son, Rotta, kidnapped and the act blamed on the Jedi. Dooku sent Ventress in her Trident-class assault ship, the Trident, to Tatooine to carry out the kidnapping. She took Rotta to the abandoned monastery on Teth with two battalions of battle droids, where she was contacted by Dooku and then by Lord Sidious, who assured them that the Jedi would be provoked into war with Hutts as well as the Separatists. Dooku ventured to Tatooine and spoke with Jabba, claiming that the Jedi were behind his son's kidnapping, and had Ventress and her spy droid, 4-A7, provide "evidence" that Skywalker and his apprentice were responsible. Though he assured the Hutt his droid army was mounting a rescue, Dooku was informed by Ventress that Skywalker had eluded her and was escaping with Rotta.
After her defeat, Dooku had Ventress lie that Skywalker had killed the Huttlet. Jabba, believing Dooku, allowed him to send battle droids to deal with Skywalker personally. After his MagnaGuards shot Skywalker down onto Tatooine, Dooku went into the Dune Sea. He contacted Ziro, informing him that Jabba believed his story, and assured him that he would be master of the Hutt Clans. Dooku also had Ziro take Senator Amidala prisoner when she learned of Ziro's deal. Dooku confronted Skywalker ordering the Jedi to surrender Rotta to him or die, dueling across the dunes, until Dooku realize the Huttlet was with Skywalker's apprentice, Ahsoka Tano. However, he anticipated this and had MagnaGuards wait for her, taunting Skywalker with a hologram of Tano's desperate fight. Skywalker fled in pursuit, taking Dooku's speeder, but the Dark Lord simply laughed knowing Skywalker would fail. However, after Jabba learned the truth of his uncle's deal, Dooku left Tatooine and informed Lord Sidious of his failure. Sidious told him to allow the Jedi their victory, knowing that the engines had turned in their favor according with Sidious' master plan as Jabba allowed the Republic to use the Hutt Cartel hyperspace lanes..

Negotiations with the Toydarians

"I sense you are one who respects strength, your highness. Our droid armies outnumber the Republic clones a hundred to one.""Perhaps, but I have heard that a single Jedi equals a hundred battle droids."
―Dooku and Katuunko
     Yoda thwarted Dooku's plan to recruit the Toydarians into the Confederacy of Independent Systems.  
At the start of the Separatist occupation of Ryloth, Dooku was informed by TA1313 that the Jedi were sending Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan to Toydaria to establish supply lines to the Republic garrison and the Twi'lek people. Dooku contacted Senator Lott Dod of the Trade Federation to prevent the Republic from doing so.
Dooku learned that King Katuunko was considering joining the Republic and was going to speak with his former master Yoda on the neutral moon, Rugosa. He sent his apprentice, Ventress, to convince him to join the Separatists. Ventress was able to make a deal with Katuunko and Yoda; If Yoda and his three troopers defeated her droid battalion, the Toydarians would be allowed to join the Republic, but if her droids captured Yoda, Katuunko would join the Separatists. Dooku approved of her deal, believing that Yoda made a mistake in venturing far from Coruscant. However, Yoda was able to defeat her droids, and Katuunko told Dooku that he would be joining the Republic upon seeing Ventress' treachery. Dooku urged him to reconsider, but to no avail, and ordered Ventress to kill the king. However, Yoda prevented the murder, and Dooku watched as Ventress made her escape, telling Yoda that his old master was fortunate he was not there in person. Dooku was disappointed in his assassin and developed a grudge against Katuunko in light of the mission's failure.

The Malevolence

"In this war, a step ahead of us Dooku always seems."
―Yoda
     Count Dooku and General Grievous oversaw the Malevolence as its ion weaponry was tested against an entire Republic fleet.  
Dooku joined General Grievous aboard the heavy cruiser Malevolence in the Abregado system. When a fleet of Republic cruisers entered the system, Dooku ordered Grievous to jam their communications and to use the cruiser's secret weapon, the ion cannon, to disable and destroy the fleet. Dooku sent out hunters to make sure there were no survivors, though he later learned that a group of survivors had destroyed the pod hunters. As Dooku, Grievous, and the Malevolence searched for the survivors, Skywalker arrived and found them first. Dooku ordered Grievous to destroy the rescue ship, but the effort failed.
After Grievous attacked a medical convoy near the Ryndellia system, Dooku gave the droid general his next target: the Republic's Outer Rim Medical Center. En route to the target, Dooku informed Grievous that the Republic had launched a strike team under Skywalker to attack the Malevolence, and warned him not to underestimate Skywalker. After the Malevolence's hyperdrive was disabled, Dooku arranged for Senator Amidala to be captured while en route to negotiations with the Banking Clan, but the ploy failed and the Malevolence was destroyed. Dooku attempted to contact Grievous for an update, but the general angrily cut communications while fleeing the scene of destruction.

Gunray's rescue

"There is no margin for error this time, child. You must prove yourself worthy of being my apprentice.""I am worthy, as you shall see."
―Count Dooku and Asajj Ventress
     The Sith conspired to retrieve Nute Gunray, believing the Neimoidian would break under Jedi interrogation.  
As the conflict entered a stalemate, Viceroy Gunray was captured by the Republic, so Sidious informed his apprentice of the dangers of allowing him to be interrogated by the Jedi. Though Tyranus planned to send Ventress to either free or silence Gunray, Sidious questioned the dark-sider's competence after previous failures. Dooku gave Ventress her mission, but warned her that she would have to prove herself worthy of being his apprentice. He bribed Senate commando Faro Argyus into helping Ventress free Gunray, and the mission was ultimately a success.

Testing Grievous

"General, the ongoing stalemate in the war has become unacceptable. There is concern you have lost your focus. Lord Sidious demands more dramatic results: more dead Jedi.""You expect victory over Jedi, but all you give me to fight them is battle droids. Bah!"
―Dooku and Grievous —  Listen (file info)
     Dooku allowed the Jedi to ambush Grievous, testing the cyborg warrior at the behest of his Sith Master.  
After Gunray's escape, Dooku, frustrated with the ongoing stalemate, arranged a test for General Grievous. He laid a trap for Jedi Master Kit Fisto, his former apprentice Nahdar Vebb, and their clone troopers at Grievous's fortress in the Vassek system. He deactivated Grievous' MagnaGuards and offered an "alternative prize" to Fisto during his pursuit of Gunray. After Grievous' first confrontation with the Jedi and the death of his pet roggwart, Gor, Dooku contacted him telling him that he arranged for this test. Grievous then cut communications with Dooku to finish off the Jedi. Grievous later informed him of Fisto's escape, and the Count suggested there was room for improvement.

Dooku's capture

"I still don't get it.""Get what?""How a bunch of drunken pirates managed to catch Dooku when we couldn't."
―Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi
     Dooku was forced to work with the Jedi against the pirates who captured them for ransom.  
Dooku captured Skywalker and took him aboard his command ship. Skywalker was rescued by Kenobi and the two of them confronted Dooku. Dooku made his escape to his solar sailor as the Republic forces arrived. Dooku was soon thereafter shot down by Skywalker and Kenobi and crash landed on Vanqor where he hid in a cave. He next caused a cave-in, forcing Skywalker to lose his lightsaber which Dooku took, and then sealed the cave off. Dooku found Weequay pirates at his solar sailor. Thereafter, Dooku approached the pirate's captain, Hondo Ohnaka, who offered him passage to Florrum for a price. Dooku agreed to pay him while secretly planning to kill all the pirates upon their arrival on Florrum due to not trusting them. However before he could, Dooku's lightsabers were stolen from him by Hondo's monkey-lizard Pilf Mukmuk. Dooku warned them that they were not dealing with a Jedi, but a Sith Lord. However, he was outnumbered and ransomed off to the Republic by the pirates. Kenobi and Skywalker checked to ensure the pirates had actually captured him. Dooku warned the Jedi that the pirates were devious and that they would not allow them to leave.
Dooku was proven correct when he, Kenobi, and Skywalker were tied together. Thus, Dooku was forced to work with the Jedi to escape before the Republic arrived. During their 2nd escape attempt, Dooku was saved by Kenobi before they were captured by Hondo and his men. However, after Republic representative Jar Jar Binks and his escort disabled the power, Dooku made his escape by choking a guard. He then killed Turk Falso and forced him to kill Barb Mentir with his own blaster. At that point, he stole their shuttle and made his escape as Anakin and Obi-Wan were rescued by Jar Jar and Stone. On his way back to his frigate, Dooku created a holorecording chronicling these events, however he chose to delete it rather than share with Sidious due to now wanting his master to know how he got kidnapped.

The Defoliator test

"When Count Dooku sees how successful my weapon is against civilian targets, I will no doubt be promoted to a more, hmm, substantial position within the Alliance."
―Lok Durd, on the Defoliator project
     Dooku approved of Lok Durd's plan to field-test the defoliator on civilian targets.  
Dooku observed General Lok Durd's test of his new weapon—the Defoliator—on the world Maridun. After the initial success of the weapon tested on grass and two battle droids, Dooku asked to the general to test the weapon on living targets. Durd assured him that he would test it on the Lurmen colonists.

Occupation of Ryloth

"Your Tactical Droid has informed me of the pitiful job you have done protecting our investment on Ryloth. "
―Count Dooku, to Wat Tambor
     Dooku ordered the Separatist forces to destroy the city of Lessu before evacuating Ryloth.  
During the initial start of the Republic's return to Ryloth, Dooku assured Tambor that the Republic forces were spread thin in its sector and that it would be suicide for the Republic. After the Republic landed and were moving on the capital of Lessu, Dooku was informed by TA-175 of Tambor's pitiful job in protecting the Separatist's investment on Ryloth. Though Tambor claimed that the tactical droid was exaggerating, Dooku warned him that he was no match for Windu. Dooku then ordered Tambor to evacuate with what valuables he had and to destroy what was left. Dooku told Tambor that the charred ruins of Ryloth would demonstrate to the galaxy the cost of a Republic "victory." Dooku then contacted Tambor again, shocked that he had not left yet. Dooku then ordered him out before Windu and the Republic arrive. He then gave TA-175 orders to bomb the capital after they leave. After the Republic arrived and captured Tambor, Dooku ordered TA-175 to bomb the capital.

Dealing with the Death Watch
     Dooku supported a regime change on Mandalore, favoring Pre Vizsla and his Death Watch organization.  
Dooku secretly supported the Death Watch movement on Mandalore. Dooku spoke with its leader, Governor Pre Vizsla of Concordia, about the Jedi Council's investigation on Mandalore. Dooku assured him that if the Republic sends an occupation force to Mandalore, the people would rebel and join the Death Watch. Dooku had Vizsla send one of his assassins to Coruscant to eliminate Duchess Satine Kryze from interfering with their plans. Unfortunately, the Duchess stopped their plans. Dooku warned Vizsla that without his forces, Death Watch would only hold the planet for a day. Dooku assured him that he had other ways of accomplishing their goals.
Following these events, Dooku betrayed the Death Watch. Vizsla was left with a lightsaber scar on his face as a "parting gift" from Dooku but managed to escape, vowing vengeance on the Sith Lord.

Continuing the war
Preventing peace

"After our attack, chances of peace will disappear."
―Count Dooku
     War profiteers in the Galactic Senate secretly worked with Dooku to prolong the Clone Wars.  
Dooku endorsed a peace initiative being offered by the Separatist Senate. However, Dooku had General Grievous carry out a mission to ensure that Lord Sidious' plans continue unhindered. Dooku assured Republic senators Lott Dod, Gume Saam, and Nix Card that they would ensure that the banks would be deregulated and they would receive their profits.
Dooku then offered his assistance to Pantoran Chairman Papanoida when his daughters were kidnapped.
Dooku then attempted to coerce Pantora, a moon of Orto Plutonia to join the Separatists by sending the Trade Federation to blockade the planet.
After the attack, Dooku sent a message saying that the Republic had killed the very sponsor of the peace initiative, Mina Bonteri. In truth, Dooku had sent his agents to kill Bonteri. Dooku then sent bounty hunters Robonino and Chata Hyoki to intimidate Senators from voting against the military enhancement bill. Dooku then sent them to eliminate Senator Amidala.

Ventress' "demise"

"I would hate to think you are training your own Sith apprentice to destroy me…""Never! My allegiance is to you and you alone.""Then you must prove it. Eliminate her."
―Darth Sidious and Darth Tyranus, on Asajj Ventress
     Dooku disowned his apprentice, Asajj Ventress, when Sidious began to suspect him of harboring treacherous intentions.  
Tyranus was then contacted by Lord Sidious about his assassin, Ventress, and how she was becoming powerful. Sidious believed that Tyranus was training his own apprentice and was planning to replace him. Tyranus assured Sidious that his loyalty was to him alone. To prove his loyalty, the Sith Lord was ordered to eliminate Ventress. Tyranus tried to convince Sidious not to do this, but he complied. Dooku then contacted Ventress at Sullust, informing her that he recalled her reinforcements. Ventress implored Dooku to help destroy the Jedi, but he told her that she was no longer his apprentice and that she would soon die. Dooku then contacted the tactical droid, TJ-912, aboard its Destroyer and ordered it to destroy Ventress aboard the flagship. TJ-912 carried out Dooku's orders and informed him that she was dead. Dooku ordered TJ-912 to withdraw. Tyranus then informed Sidious that Ventress had been destroyed, proving his loyalty to his master.
Dooku then came under attack by Ventress and her fellow Nightsisters posing as Jedi at his palace on Serenno. Though his senses were dulled by their poison, Dooku was able to fight them off with his Sith lightning. The attempt on his life failed but Dooku never found out the identity of his attackers. Dooku was then contacted by Mother Talzin, who was aware of the loss of his prized assassin, who was of one of her Nightsisters. She then offered Dooku one male from her planet to replace her. Dooku took her up on her offer.

Dealings with the Nightsisters
Reunion with Talzin

"We could certainly use the power of the Nightsisters against the Jedi.""Such a generous offer, Count. But our loyalty is reserved for only each other. The only reason I am aiding in your search for a new assassin is because long ago, you chose to help me. After this matter is resolved, I hope our paths never cross again."
―Dooku and Talzin
Dooku then traveled to Dathomir to speak with Talzin. Dooku proposed an alliance between his Separatists and her Nightsisters. Talzin refused his generous offer. Talzin then asked Dooku if knew the Sith warrior, Darth Maul. Dooku remembered that he was killed 10 years ago on Naboo by Kenobi. Talzin then offered one of her Nightbrothers from Maul's village, as his new assassin. Dooku, with the "loss" of Ventress and the Jedi attacks, agreed to her offer and left.

Training Maul's Brother

"I foresee we will do great things together. I shall teach you the ways of the dark side. Soon, your powers will rival that of the great Sith Lord Darth Maul. We will be even more powerful than Lord Sidious. We shall rule the galaxy together, my apprentice."
―Count Dooku, to Savage Opress
     Dooku found a new secret apprentice, Savage Opress.  
Dooku was then given the Nightbrother, Savage Opress, by Talzin on Serenno. Dooku was impressed by the Opress' sight and how Talzin described him as the fiercest of his kind, assuring him that Opress would serve Dooku well. Dooku then sent Opress on a mission to secure the outpost on Devaron from the Republic. Dooku was then informed by Opress of his mission's success and returned to him on Serenno. Dooku then told Savage how they would do great things, be more powerful than Lord Sidious and the former Darth Maul, and rule the galaxy together.
Dooku then trained Savage in lightsaber combat and his dark side powers. Dooku was a harsh taskmaster who tortured Opress with his Sith lightning. After Dooku's first training session with Opress, he sent him on a mission to Toydaria. Dooku told him to bring King Katuunko to him alive. However, Opress failed Dooku when he killed Katuunko and brought him aboard his flagship. Dooku then punished him with his Sith lightning. Ventress then revealed herself to be alive and Opress' true master. The two of them then fought Dooku but were unable to defeat him. Dooku had the upper-hand, and even weakened Opress with his Sith Lightning. However, Opress then force-choked Dooku and Ventress, and subsequently tried to kill them both. Dooku and Ventress pushed him back, and then made their escape. Dooku was then confronted by Ventress, but was able to defeat her. Just as he was about to kill her, Dooku was blinded and Ventress made her escape. Dooku then ordered his battle droids to kill Opress, but they failed to stop him from escaping.

The Citadel
Dooku contacted the Citadel's warden, Commander Osi Sobeck about Jedi Council Member Even Piell's information on the Nexus Route. Dooku then reprimanded Sobeck, but gives him another chance to get the information from his escaping prisoners.

Battle of Mon Cala

"The whispering of his name can rekindle hope, and hope is something we cannot allow our enemy to possess."
―Count Dooku, to Riff Tamson, on Lee-Char
     Riff Tamson led Dooku's droid forces at the Battle of Mon Cala.  
During the Battle of Mon Cala, Count Dooku supported the Quarren in their civil war against the Mon Calamari. The Mon Calamari King Yos Kolina had died but the Quarren led by Chieftain Nossor Ri contested his son Prince Lee-Char's claim to the throne. Dooku dispatched Commander Riff Tamson as a Separatist observer to the Quarren on Mon Cala. Dooku was assured that Chieftain Nossor Ri and his Quarren were with them. In return for supporting the Separatist cause, Dooku promised Tamson that Mon Cala would be his to rule. Under Dooku's orders, Mon Calamari captives from Mon Cala city were enslaved.
After the Mon Calamari and Republic received Gungan reinforcements from Naboo, Dooku sent Tamson reinforcements, but ordered him to keep them in reserve. Dooku also ordered him to continue to hunt down Prince Lee-Char and reminded Nossor Ri that the Quarren had to support the war effort if they wanted Separatist support. Tamson also received Karkarodon enforcers from his homeworld of Karkaris to secure the Separatists hold on the planet. Despite Dooku's best efforts, his plans to conquer Mon Cala collapsed after the Quarren switched sides after learning that Tamson planned to crown himself as the new ruler of Mon Cala. Together, the Quarren, Mon Calamari, Republic, Jedi, and Gungans managed to drive the Separatist from Mon Cala.

Dealings on Naboo

"The Sith control everything. You just don't know it."
―Count Dooku, to Anakin Skywalker
     Dooku set a trap for Skywalker on Naboo, using himself as bait to lure the young Jedi Knight away from his forces.  
Both the Trade Federation and the Separatist armies had longed to take control of Naboo ever since their humiliating defeat at the Battle of Naboo. This time, Count Dooku led the plan, with General Grievous at his side. Dooku long coveted the planet Naboo because of its connection to Palpatine as the Republic's leader.
Dooku then formed an alliance with Gungan priest, Rish Loo to provoke a war between the Naboo and the Gungans. Dooku promised Rish Loo that he would most influential in his new order. However, Rish Loo's plans were exposed by Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, Senator Amidala, and Representative Binks freed Boss Lyonie from his mind-control. Dooku informed his master of General Grievous' capture by the Gungans. Dooku agreed to capture Skywalker in order to trade him for Grievous. Dooku had Rish Loo lure Skywalker to his lab. Once there, Dooku killed Rish Loo for his foolishness. Dooku and his MagnaGuards fought Skywalker, eventually subduing him. Dooku then contacted Amidala, offering to exchange Skywalker for General Grievous. At first, Amidala refused, but agreed to it when Dooku's MagnaGuards started to torture Skywalker.

Dealing with slavers

"I see the queen has given you a long leash."
―Count Dooku, to Anakin Skywalker
     Skywalker confronted Dooku on the Zygerrian homeworld, and was subdued by a barrage of Force lightning.  
Dooku then accompanied Zygerrian slaver, Commander Darts D'Nar, and his forces as they moved into "occupy" the Togruta colony of Kiros. Dooku then convinced the governor, Gupat Roshti, to be taken to a "safe haven." Dooku and Zygerrian Prime Minister Atai Molec then contacted him as he negotiated with General Kenobi. Dooku then ordered D'Nar to bring Kenobi to him on his knees. Dooku and half of Scintel's kingdom then demanded the Zygerrian Queen, Miraj Scintel, kill Anakin Skywalker.
When she refused, Dooku was asked to come to Zygerria by Prime Minister Molec. Sidious sent Dooku to ensure that the Queen would carry out Skywalker's execution. Dooku then spoke with the Queen and the Prime Minister about Skywalker and his friends' situation. Dooku was intrigued by her plan to enslave the Jedi, but Dooku's plan was to eradicate the Jedi. He also warned her that her power over Skywalker was an illusion, since he was once a Jedi. When the queen refused to allow Dooku to execute Skywalker, Molec saw her as unworthy of being queen, in which Dooku then force-choked Scintel as Skywalker arrived. Dooku then fought Skywalker and ordered the Royal guard to kill Skywalker for the Queen's murder before he escaped. Dooku then contacted Keeper Agruss and ordered him to execute Kenobi and Captain Rex.
Dooku later appeared through a hologram to Lux Bonteri in which he denied killing Mina Bonteri and ordered him killed for treason.

Kidnapping plot

"You should've quit while you were still alive, Dooku.""Fighting off the entire Jedi security force would've been difficult. But now that they are gone, defeating you alone will be an easy task."
―Count Dooku and Anakin Skywalker
     Skywalker's interference prevented Dooku from leaving Naboo with Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine.  
Dooku then hired bounty hunter Moralo Eval to carry out a kidnapping of Palpatine. Following Eval's escape with help from fellow bounty hunters Cad Bane and Rako Hardeen (Kenobi in disguise), Dooku brought other bounty hunters to participate in this mission for him. He tested them by putting them inside the box. Dooku became impressed with Hardeen's performance, especially how he was able to kill Kenobi. Dooku then had Eval fight Hardeen till he lost. He then appointed Bane as leader of this team to carry out Palpatine's kidnapping.
On Naboo, Dooku listened to Bane's plans. However, he implanted a listening device in Hardeen's rifle case, revealing that he knew that Hardeen was Kenobi all along. The bounty hunter's mission was merely a diversion to distract the Republic troops, while Dooku carried out the kidnapping. However, his plan was foiled by Kenobi and Skywalker who managed to stop his plot before he escaped.

Extermination of the Nightsisters

"The time has come at last to take revenge on Asajj Ventress and the witch, Mother Talzin. I have learned Ventress has returned to Dathomir. Go there and wipe the witches out. All of them."
―Dooku, to Grievous
     Dooku ordered Grievous to exterminate the Nightsisters of Dathomir while Mother Talzin tortured him through magick.  
Remembering their treachery with Savage Opress, Dooku, at the behest of Darth Sidious, dispatched General Grievous to wipe out Mother Talzin, Ventress, and the Nightsisters on Dathomir. However, Dooku was tortured by Talzin through her magick, demanding he call off Grievous and his army. Dooku contacted Grievous, ordering him to find Talzin before she killed him. Dooku was saved when Grievous apparently "killed" Talzin in a secret chamber of the Nightsister village.
Following the Nightsister massacre, Dooku spoke with Grievous about Savage Opress. He feared that with Talzin gone, Savage would be a danger to him and his master, as he was becoming more powerful. Dooku also sensed something else coming; unknown to him, Darth Maul would soon return to the galactic stage with Opress at his side.

Onderon rebellion
Dooku then supported Sanjay Rash as he usurped the throne of Onderon from Ramsis Dendup. Following Rash's reports of the rebels, Dooku dispatched super tactical droid general, Kalani to take command of the Separatist forces. Following the rebels' victory over the droid gunships, Dooku ordered Kalani to withdraw what remained of the occupation force to Agamar, much to Rash's disapproval, which ended with his death.

Retribution on Florrum

"Hondo Ohnaka, we meet again. As I remember the last time we meet face to face I was your prisoner and you attempted to bargain me off to the highest bidder.""But can you blame me, I mean a Sith lord, what a handsome price you would of-""Silence. You are going to pay the price for your treachery."
―Count Dooku and Hondo Ohnaka
     Dooku deployed Grievous against Hondo Ohnaka, the pirate who once held the Count as a prisoner for ransom.  
Still having a score to settle with Hondo Ohnaka for holding him captive in the past, Dooku dispatched General Grievous to Florrum to seize and dismantle all of Ohnaka's possessions making them his own property. He then had Grievous take Ohnaka away to a prison cell. Ohnaka survived the assault but much of his base was left in ruins.

Alliance with Ravna

"How many times must I tell you, Kenobi? Do not underestimate the power of the dark side!"
―Count Dooku
     Dooku tried to recruit Ravna to his cause, only to be betrayed by the Dark Lord.  
According to a story told years later, Dooku traveled to the planet Bray. There, he met the Dark Lord Ravna at the Citadel of Light and formed an agreement between himself and Ravna. Dooku hoped to use Ravna's ability to infect any living being into unknown violent species to transform millions of clones and swiftly end the Clone War. When Jedi Masters Kenobi and Gallia arrived at the Citadel alongside the 212th Attack Battalion, Dooku introduced the Jedi to Ravna and subdued Gallia with his Force lightning.
However, Dooku was ultimately betrayed by Ravna who sought to infect all beings in the galaxy and proceeded to transform Dooku. After destroying his super battle droid, Dooku stood by as Ravna's followers attempted to infect Kenobi and Gallia. However, Dooku gave into his anger when Kenobi insulted him and called him pathetic, causing Dooku to strike at Ravna with Force lightning. In the chaos of the fight, Dooku told Kenobi and Gallia to destroy Ravna and his followers, a resolution the Jedi saw to by using the Force to collapse the Citadel while Ravna was still inside, thereby burying the creature while Dooku escaped.

Approaching the final days
Order 66 revelation

"Our plan has gone undiscovered, Master. The clone in question is now dead, and the Jedi still suspect nothing.""Good. Destroy the evidence. When the time comes, no one will be able to stop our plan to execute Order 66."
―Darth Tyranus and Darth Sidious
     As the clone army's benefactor, Tyranus was in secret contact with the Kaminoans during the Clone Wars.  
Dooku was later contacted by Admiral Trench. Through Trench's line held on Ringo Vinda, he informed Dooku how one of the clones had murdered his Jedi general in a trance-like state. Tyranus informed his master that Order 66 might be revealed. Thus Sidious ordered Tyranus to kidnap the clone and examine him. Dooku then ordered Trench to kidnap the clone. After the admiral succeeded in doing so, Dooku applauded him and ordered him to send the clone to him.
Following Trench's failed kidnapping, Dooku, going by Darth Tyranus, was contacted by Kaminoan Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se about the trooper. Tyranus asked for the inhibitor chip, reiterated his lie about the intention of the chip, and stated that Sifo-Dyas was the only one who knew about the chip prior to his death. However, the inhibitor chip was then stolen by the renegade trooper CT-5555 aka "Fives". Tyranus made it clear that the Jedi must not learn this. Following the death of the renegade trooper, Tyranus was then given both chips by his master and was ordered to destroy them.

Recruiting Clovis

"Lord Tyranus, the Republic fleet will be arriving shortly.""Very good, my Lord. Clovis has blindly played his part. It now appears he coordinated the entire Separatist takeover.""And because of this treachery, the banks will be firmly placed under the control of the Supreme Chancellor."
―Darth Sidious and Darth Tyranus
     Dooku engineered the rise and fall of Senator Rush Clovis as head of the InterGalactic Banking Clan.  
Sometime later, Dooku was contacted by Sidious and was ordered by his master to once again recruit Senator Rush Clovis and name him the new head of the Banking Clan. Dooku then contacted Clovis via the medical droid treating him. Dooku offered to pay the Confederacy's interest on their loans as well as supply Clovis details of the Muuns' secret accounts, in exchange for him becoming head of the Banking Clan.
After Clovis took his position on Scipio, Dooku contacted him to congratulate on his appointment. Dooku then announced that he wished to collect on his "investment" or he will reveal the truth behind's Clovis' appointment. He also threatened that the Confederacy would not pay back their loans. Thus Dooku forced Clovis to raise the Republic's interest rates to keep the bank afloat. Dooku then arrived at Scipio, accompanied by the Confederate fleet and ordered his super tactical droid, Commander Kraken, to begin the invasion. Soon after, Dooku arrived on the planet and went to Clovis' office. There, Dooku informed Amidala of the deal he made with Clovis. Dooku ordered her arrest, but Separatist Congress Leader, Bec Lawise, said that their Senate would not approve of this. Dooku then forced Amidala to shoot Lawise.
Tyranus was then informed by Sidious that the Republic fleet would be arriving shortly. Soon after, Republic ships led by Anakin Skywalker began attacking Kraken's fleet. Arriving onboard Kraken's flagship, Dooku ordered Kraken to withdraw their forces from Scipio. Kraken protested and claimed that there were droid forces still on the planet. Dooku dismissed Kraken's concerns and ordered the droid to withdraw. Kraken obeyed and retreated along with the Confederate fleet, abandoning the droid forces on the planet.

Dispatching Serennian nobility

"You are part of the Separatist movement, currently at war with the Republic and Loyalist systems. Your duke has constructed a base and is shipping materials and equipment to it. Because he didn't want anyone to know where the base is, he gathered his supplies from various origination points and sent them to Batuu, where the inhabitants don't pry into others' activities. But he didn't expect interference from thieves."
―Thrawn on Solha
     Skywalker, Thrawn, and Amidala (pictured from left to right) teamed up in an attempt to defeat Solha.  
Around 19 BBY, Dooku dispatched the Serennian duke Solha to the Outer Rim planet Mokivj after the count learnt of the existence of cortosis, a metal that powered down lightsabers and deflected blaster bolts. Dooku had Solha take over a fortress on Mokivj and transform it into a droid factory, where the duke and his siblings manufactured a model of B2 super battle droid equipped with cortosis armor. The factory also constructed clone trooper armor covered with cortosis, which Sidious wanted to use when Order 66 was executed.
However, Senator Amidala, Senior Captain Mitth'raw'nuruodo, core name "Thrawn," and Skywalker discovered the factory and attacked it. During the attack, Amidala talked with Solha, telling him that she thought that Serennian custom permitted a prisoner one last request; the duke claimed Dooku was still working out the details. Ultimately, the attackers destroyed the factory.

Plots revealed

"Tyranus? You are the man called Tyranus?""I told you everything you needed to know on Geonosis all those years ago, Kenobi. You should've joined me. Sifo Dyas understood, he saw the future, that is why he helped me."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Count Dooku
     Tyranus was chastened by Sidious, who warned his apprentice to beware the price of failure for a Sith.  
After meeting with Yoda to discuss Sifo-Dyas, Darth Sidious alerted his apprentice. Darth Tyranus was told about the Jedi's renewed investigation into Sifo-Dyas and his death, choking Tyranus as a price for his clumsiness. Sidious sent Tyranus to Oba Diah to make sure the Jedi did not learn the truth about the Clone Army and their eventual fates. When Tyranus arrived on the planet, he went towards the former chancellor Finis Valorum's aid, Silman, and killed him before the Jedi sent to Oba Diah—Skywalker and Kenobi—could unravel the mystery. Due to his actions on Oba Diah, the Pykes cornered Tyranus while he fought Skywalker and Kenobi. As the Pykes spoke to the Sith, they unknowingly revealed to the Jedi that Dooku and the identity of "Tyranus" were the same person.
The Pykes and Jedi then formed an alliance to kill Tyranus, which ended with the Sith Lord killing Lom Pyke. Dooku quickly attempted to make his escape, via a Coruscant Freighter docked in the Oba Diah port, but Obi-Wan pushed Anakin toward Dooku, and the two fought on the vessel. Nevertheless, Dooku defeated Skywalker and made his escape, having succeeded in stopping the Jedi from learning the truth of the Clone Army. However, the news that Tyranus—a man they knew had hired Jango Fett—was actually Dooku disturbed the Jedi, as it showcased that their enemy had made them an army.

Yoda's journey to Moraband

"We have failed to break Master Yoda. He is strong. We will need more time if we are to defeat him and the Jedi."
―Darth Sidious, to Darth Tyranus
     Sidious attacked Yoda through the Force, utilizing the bond that once existed between Tyranus and his old Master.  
Dooku was then informed by Kraken that Lord Sidious demanded his presence on Coruscant. Arriving on Coruscant in the Works, he was greeted by Sidious, who then led him to the tower's ceremonial chamber. Both he and Lord Sidious felt that Yoda was on the Sith homeworld of Moraband for some unknown reason. Tyranus then allowed Sidious to use his blood to create an illusion for Yoda due to him being his former master with both using their Sith lightning. In the ritual, Dooku and Sidious were confronted by Yoda, Anakin Skywalker, Captain Rex, and a squad of clone troopers who were tasked with eliminating the Sith. Dooku attacked the clones with Force lightning and dueled with Skywalker and was eventually killed by him. At the end of the ritual, they had failed in breaking Yoda and knew they needed more time to defeat him and the Jedi.

Crystal Crisis on Utapau
     Grievous fought with Obi-Wan Kenobi while attempting to secure a large kyber crystal on Utapau.  
Towards the end of the Clone Wars, Count Dooku and General Grievous took interest in a massive kyber crystal on the neutral planet of Utapau. They hired several Sugi mercenaries led by Endente and Amani outcasts to excavate the crystal and to guard it respectively. Dooku and Grievous were also aided by Governor Torul Blom, who had secret contacts with Endente. When the Jedi Master Tu-Anh stumbled upon their operation, the Separatists sent two IG-100 MagnaGuards to assassinate her. However, her death attracted the attention of Master Kenobi and the Jedi Knight Skywalker, who traveled to Utapau to investigate.
Investigating Tu-Anh's death and the presence of MagnaGuards, Kenobi and Skywalker traveled to the plains of Utapau to investigate a group of Amani outcasts. While traveling through Utapau's wilderness, the two Jedi were captured by several Sugi mercenaries who brought them to Endente, who informed them about the Confederacy's interest in the kyber crystal. When the Jedi offered to buy the crystal for twice the amount, Endente informed Dooku via hologram about the Jedi and demanded more compensation to offset the Jedi offer. Dooku ordered him to kill the Jedi and promised that he would send Grievous to "give him what he deserved." Later, the two Jedi managed to overpower their captors and steal the crystal.

     The actions of the Jedi, Kenobi and Skywalker, prevented Dooku from gaining possession of the kyber crystal.  
As Endente and his Sugi comrades prepared for a counter-assault to recover the kyber crystal, they were contacted by Dooku who informed him that Grievous was coming to meet them on the plains of Utapau. Fearful of reporting his failure to the Sith, Endente told Dooku to send Grievous to meet them at Pau City instead on the pretext that the Amani could no longer be relied upon to guard the crystal. Endente informed the Sith Lord that they had a friend in the Utapau government, Governor Blom. Despite their efforts, Endente and his forces failed to recover the crystal from the Jedi, who made their way to Pau City's spaceport.
Grievous eventually learned of Endente's failure and executed the Sugi mercenary. After a struggle, Grievous, with the help of Governor Blom, managed to recover the crystal from the Jedi and loaded it onto his shuttle. Grievous managed to load the crystal onto his supply ship. The Jedi followed him aboard, but Grievous managed to capture Kenobi. Following Kenobi's capture, Grievous gave a report to Dooku, who ordered him to execute Master Kenobi and to deliver the crystal urgently to Serenno; stressing that he would tolerate no failure. Despite Grievous' efforts, the two Jedi managed to destroy the crystal and Grievous' fleet. Grievous alone escaped to report the failure to his master.

The Dark Disciple and Asajj Ventress

"Vos is a Dark Lord, as I am, and he knows better than to turn against his kind.""A Dark Lord?""Oh, yes. He has sworn allegiance to the dark side. He and I will take down Lord Sidious once and for all, and rule the galaxy together. Hopefully, you'll have been disposed of by then."
―Count Dooku, to Asajj Ventress
     Jedi Master Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress plotted to assassinate Count Dooku.  
During the waning days of the Clone Wars, Count Dooku commanded an assault on the planet Mahranee, which led to the genocide of the Mahran species. In addition, Dooku also issued orders that all Mahran be killed on sight. Dooku's assault was witnessed by the Jedi Council on Coruscant, who at the suggestion of Master Obi-Wan hatched an unusual plan partnering maverick Jedi Master Quinlan Vos with the Nightsister bounty hunter and Dooku's former apprentice Asajj Ventress. After partnering with Ventress as a bounty hunter, Vos eventually revealed his true identity. Seeking revenge against Dooku for his actions against her and her people, Ventress agreed to help Vos by training him in the ways of the dark side.
After Vos completed his training, Ventress received word from the Separatist contact Sumdin that Dooku was going to visit Raxus Secundus, where he was due to receive the Raxian Humanitarian Award for his services to the Confederacy. For that trip, Dooku was accompanied by his military commander General Grievous. Before receiving the award, Dooku gave a patriotic speech to a large crowd defending the Separatist cause and attacking the Republic and the Jedi. During the public banquet, Asajj took the opportunity to meet up with Dooku and challenge him to a duel at the overlook nearby. Dooku agreed but secretly contacted Grievous for reinforcements. However, Vos anticipated this and, although being overpowered by the cyborg, managed to lock Grievous in a room.
Together, Ventress and Vos confronted Dooku at the overlook. After exchanging pleasantries over a glass of Alderaanian wine, Dooku engaged the assassins in a lightsaber duel. Using his mastery of the dark side, Dooku overpowered the two assassins and used the Force to hurl them against some nearby pillars. Despite Vos' best efforts, he was unable to best Dooku and was taken captive by the Sith Lord. Ventress managed to escape following a scuffle with Grievous but was unable to rescue her lover Vos. Dooku then struck Vos unconscious with Force lightning and spirited his Jedi captive away to the dungeons of his palace on Serenno.

     Vos was captured and taken to Dooku's castle on Serenno, where the Jedi was turned to the dark side of the Force.  
On Serenno, Count Dooku tortured Quinlan Vos for a prolonged period. To sow discord between Vos and Ventress, he showed the Jedi Master a hologram of Ventress killing his former Master Tholme. When Vos initially refused to believe Dooku's account, the Sith Lord presented Vos with Tholme's lightsaber. Using his psychometric abilities, Vos realized that Dooku was telling the truth. Shortly later, Ventress and Boba Fett's bounty hunter syndicate launched a mission to rescue Vos. However, they were forced to flee empty-handed after Vos, who had given in to the dark side, attacked Ventress. Following the attack, Vos became Dooku's new Sith apprentice. Despite turning to the dark side, Vos secretly planned to force Dooku to lead him to his master, Darth Sidious, and then kill the two Sith Lords.

Search for Maul

"I left you here to make you an offer. While Grievous is a creature of limited scope, you see much more. You abandoned the Jedi when you understood the Sith were gaining power. Now I suggest you abandon Sidious and serve me."
―Maul, to Count Dooku
     Dooku was taken prisoner by Maul, Sidious' first apprentice.  
Dooku assisted his master in interrogating his former apprentice Maul about his Shadow Collective at the Spire on Stygeon Prime. However, Maul then made his escape with his Mandalorian super commandos to Zanbar. Dooku then dispatched General Grievous and Tey-Zuka to attack and cripple Maul and his forces. Dooku then contacted Grievous after Maul's forces retreated. Dooku hoped this attack would draw Talzin out.
Dooku, accompanied by a pair of MagnaGuards, then went to Ord Mantell to capture Maul and level the city. Dooku was then confronted by Brother Viscus and the Nightbrothers. Dooku was easily able to defeat the Viscus and his men. However, Dooku was then surrounded by Maul's forces before he had the chance to kill the defeated Viscus.

     Dooku killed Jedi General Tiplee while fighting alongside Maul.  
Dooku was offered a deal by Maul; to abandon Lord Sidious and serve Maul. Dooku refused, knowing that Sidious was more powerful than they realized. Maul told him that together with Talzin, they would be Sidious' undoing. Dooku then spoke with Talzin, warning that betraying Sidious would be a folly. Talzin told him that Sidious was ready to replace him with a new apprentice. She then revealed to Dooku how Sidious came to her promising to make her his right hand but betrayed her when he took Maul. She also revealed that Maul was her son. When the Republic forces boarded their ship, Dooku decided to assist Maul in killing the Jedi, but not before secretly freeing Grievous. Together they fought Jedi Generals, Mace Windu, Aayla Secura, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Tiplee. Dooku then killed Tiplee and then escaped with Maul and Commanders Saxon and Kast aboard a gauntlet fighter.
Dooku was then taken to Dathomir by Maul. There, he was taken to a chamber in the Nightbrother village to have his life-force taken from him to allow Talzin to regain her form. Dooku was then possessed by Talzin when Grievous and Sidious suddenly arrived. After a brief clash with Sidious, Talzin released Dooku's body and appeared in physical form again. Dooku then assisted his master in fighting Talzin and Maul, eventually overpowering them. Maul ended up escaping, and Talzin was killed by Grievous. Despite Maul's escape, Sidious assured Dooku that their future was certain.

Rescue of Quinlan Vos and the end of Ventress

"Soon enough, you will stop denying the truth of so very many things. And you will understand that I am not a traitor, but a visionary! Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hatred leads to suffering. But what the Jedi failed to teach you, what I have learned, is how to persevere, to pass through the suffering, and achieve ultimate power!"
―Count Dooku, to Quinlan Vos
     Dooku killed Ventress and tried to use her death to push Vos fully to the dark side.  
Following Talzin's death, Dooku and his new right-hand man, Quinlan Vos, launched a renewed military campaign against the Republic. Vos quickly gained the moniker "Admiral Enigma" among the Republic media. After receiving intelligence from Admiral Wullf Yularen that Dooku was planning to attack the planet Taris, the Jedi Council hatched a mission to rescue Quinlan Vos. With the help of Ventress, Kenobi and his former apprentice Anakin Skywalker infiltrated Dooku's Providence-class Dreadnought and made their way to the bridge, hoping to encounter "Admiral Enigma." Instead, they encountered Dooku. While Skywalker dueled with Dooku, Ventress and Kenobi managed to "rescue" Vos from his cell. However, Vos and Dooku had anticipated the rescue and arranged for Vos to appear in an emaciated state. While Ventress sensed that Vos had turned to the dark side, his Jedi colleagues eagerly welcomed Vos home.
Quinlan Vos' "rescue" gave Count Dooku a high-level spy within the Jedi Order. Using his high-placed position within the Jedi hierarchy, Vos leaked intelligence on two Republic operations to Dooku. This allowed the Separatists to sabotage an asteroid supplies warehouse and to evacuate a listening post on Vanqor prior to a Republic attack. After discerning that Vos had turned to the dark side, the Jedi Council sent Vos on a mission to kill Dooku. With the help of Ventress, Vos and the Jedi learned that Dooku's dreadnought was last sighted above the crystal-covered planet of Christophsis. Vos managed to infiltrate Dooku's dreadnought and engaged the Sith Lord in a lightsaber duel. Despite besting Dooku, Vos refused to kill him and instead demanded that Dooku lead him to Darth Sidious.
Unknown to both Dooku and Vos, they had been tailed by Kenobi and Skywalker. The two Jedi Knights promptly arrested Dooku and his apprentice and transported them to the Venator-class Star Destroyer Vigilance as prisoners. While being marched to the Vigilance's brig, Vos managed to free Dooku, who in turned freed Vos. After killing the Jedi Knights Akar-Deshu and Kav Bayons and two dozen Clone troopers, the two dark siders escaped the Vigilance aboard Ventress' ship Banshee. Ventress attempted to fly them back to Dooku's dreadnought but they were shot down by the Vigilance and crash-landed on Christophsis.

     Ventress' sacrifice undermined Dooku's plans for Vos, who reclaimed his status as a Jedi.  
Dooku and his fellow travelers survived the crash but the Count sustained a serious injury since he had not been properly strapped in. After navigating through Christophsis' crystal-covered landscape, they managed to reach a local Separatist base that was built into a giant crystal tower. Upon arriving, Dooku was informed that Darth Sidious was seeking an audience with him. During a brief hologram conversation, Dooku requested help from his master to get offworld. Shortly later, Kenobi and Skywalker launched a full-scale assault on the Separatist base.
Together, Dooku and his opponents made their way into an outlying crystal sanctum. On the way, Dooku was struck by a blaster blast and was knocked unconscious. While Ventress wanted to let him die, Vos insisted on keeping him alive. While Vos assisted the battle droids in the defense of the base, Ventress moved Dooku into the crystal sanctum. After stirring, Dooku taunted Ventress by deriding her as a "grant" and claiming that Vos had much potential as a Sith Lord. Ventress responded that Vos had "bigger plans" for Dooku. When Vos entered the sanctum, Ventress confronted him about his decision to join Dooku and the dark side.
While Ventress and Vos were preoccupied, Dooku took the opportunity to attack his former pupils with Force lightning. He wanted to kill Vos, but ended up striking Ventress, who pushed Vos out of the way. Though Quinlan managed to stop Dooku, Ventress appeared to be mortally wounded. Dooku then attempted to goad Vos into killing him, but realizing that the act of murder led to the dark side, Vos refused and reaffirmed his Jedi identity. While Vos comforted his lover, Dooku took the opportunity to rendezvous with Sidious' starship and fled off-world upon being rescued by Grievous. Despite failing to kill Dooku, Vos was pardoned by the Jedi Council after he rejected the dark side and continued serving the Jedi war effort.

Death

"You did well, Anakin. He was too dangerous to be kept alive.""Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner. I shouldn't have done that. It's not the Jedi way.""It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge."
―Sheev Palpatine and Anakin Skywalker, on Count Dooku's death
On one occasion, Count Dooku dueled Yoda on Vjun. Before making a tactical withdrawal, he was able to accomplish the near impossible by wounding his former master. At one point, Dooku fought Skywalker again on Tythe, but the Jedi failed to defeat the Count. Later, Dooku became a part of Sidious' plan to capture Palpatine during the Battle of Coruscant. However, Dooku was unaware that Sidious' true intentions were for Anakin to kill him and replace him as Sidious' apprentice, as Sidious felt it was time for Anakin to be his apprentice, as well as that Dooku no longer served a purpose. Dooku then informed Grievous of the impending news, the CIS had a chance of recovery and victory. Grievous' fleet was able to leap directly from the Outer Rim to Coruscant thanks to Darth Sidious, who had obtained the coordinates and provided them a plan to kidnap the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. Earlier, Dooku had relocated his command post to Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand. This allowed him to stay close to Grievous and ensure that his orders were followed. Sidious wanted to avoid any setbacks in his plans, despite the cyborg general posing no threat to him.

     Dooku was disarmed and executed by Skywalker during the Battle of Coruscant.  
Count Dooku held Chancellor Palpatine captive aboard General Grievous' flagship, the Invisible Hand after the Kaleesh General abducted him and took him to the communications tower. After completing this mission successfully, Dooku ordered Grievous to remain in orbit and attack the Republic fleet in close combat. He proclaimed to a stunned galaxy that the Republic leader was his hostage. When Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi made their way to the bridge where the Chancellor was being held in an attempt to rescue him, Dooku arrived and confronted the two Jedi, flanked by two super battle droids, demanding the Jedi to surrender their sabers. He then engaged them in a brief, but fierce lightsaber duel.
During the duel, Dooku defeated Kenobi, who was incapacitated and knocked unconscious when the Count used the Force to pin Kenobi to the ground with a metal balcony. He then took the opportunity to mock and goad Skywalker, saying that the young Jedi knight had great fear, hate and anger in him, but was refusing to use them. However, Dooku was soon overpowered by an angered Skywalker, who, with one slash of his lightsaber, severed both the Count's hands at the wrists. Skywalker then caught Dooku's lightsaber out of the air and crossed it with his own blade at the Count's throat. Palpatine praised Anakin, but then betrayed Dooku by telling Anakin to kill him. Shocked and horrified by his master's command, he looked at Sidious, only to be met with a sinister smile from his master. Despite realizing he had been duped by Sidious, he remained silent. Skywalker was initially hesitant to kill Dooku because killing an unarmed prisoner was not the Jedi way. However, when Palpatine ordered Skywalker to kill Dooku, he drew the two lightsabers together, decapitating the leader of the Confederacy, much to his own reluctance.

Legacy
Replaced

"At the time I thought Dooku was an old fool. But now, now I see he and I are the same. One step behind. The dark side has never been stronger."
―Maul after learning about Dooku's death
Years earlier, when Count Dooku led the Republic to Grievous' home on Vassek, Grievous vowed never to forgive him. When Dooku died at the hands of Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, Grievous, who had been trained by Dooku in the Jedi art of lightsaber combat, did not mourn his death. Grievous succeeded him as Head of State, granting him complete control over the Separatist forces, which he found of great value to himself while still remaining in the service of Dooku's Master, Darth Sidious.

     Anakin's betrayal of Windu and fall to the dark side.  
After escaping from the Invisible Hand to Utapau to meet with the Separatist Council, Grievous reported Dooku's death to Sidious, who dismissed his apprentice's death as a necessary loss, promising the General that he would have a new apprentice soon. Not long after, Skywalker replaced Dooku at Sidious' side after he fell to the dark side and became Darth Vader. Sidious then issued order 66, causing the biochips that Tyranus had implanted in the Clones' brains, to activate and brainwash them into turning on the Jedi, ultimately leading to the defeat and near destruction of the Jedi Order, and destruction of the Separatists.
During the Siege of Mandalore, Dooku's Sith predecessor Maul confessed to his followers that he had originally viewed the Count as nothing more than an old fool. In the wake of Sidious' grand plan coming to fruition, however, Maul mused that Dooku and himself were the same, pawns of their master who were always one step behind after the renegade Sith Lord learnt about his successor's death.

Plundered and propagandized

"Dooku was right in the end. He knew the Republic was corrupt, that it would collapse and become something worse. He saw it coming. The Galactic Empire."
―Desix Governor Tawni Ames
     Dooku's castle was left abandoned and plundered during the Imperial Era.  
Following the end of the Clone Wars, the Galactic Empire bombarded Dooku's homeworld of Serenno and led an effort at the Count's castle to seize the contents of a war chest containing valuables and artifacts, at least some of which Dooku had pilfered from his own people. The renegade commando squadron Clone Force 99 attempted to secure the cache themselves, but were fended off by the Empire. Despite his crimes, Dooku's ideals continued to inspire Separatist holdouts, including the group led by Governor Tawni Ames on the planet Desix. Recognizing the Empire as nothing more than a worse version of the corrupt Republic Dooku had spoke of, she refused to submit and fought for her planet's independence. Her efforts ended in death at the hands of a squad of clone stormtroopers led by Clone Commander Cody.
The newly-created Security Bureau conducted loyalty purges, during which much Separatist propaganda material featuring Dooku was destroyed. However, rare specimens of Ansibella Dellu's work-in-progress poster survived. Speculation began to circulate after the war's end that Dooku had in fact never left the Jedi Order despite their claims to the contrary. This rumor bolstered the idea that the Jedi had been traitors to the Republic since before the start of the war but some, amongst them Governor Tarkin, remained skeptical.

     With his Sith persona a secret to the galaxy at large, Dooku's public words and the ideal expressed by his Confederacy persisted for years to come in the form of Separatist Holdouts.  
Dooku was mentioned in the display for the Clone Wars in the Emperor's Museum on Coruscant. In 3 BBY, the Apprentice Legislator and Princess of Alderaan Leia Organa saw the display, shortly after discovering her parents involvement with the growing rebellion, while visiting the museum with the rest of the Apprentice Legislature. The docent of the Emperor's Museum claimed that although Dooku acted out of "craven ambition" with no regard to the lives lost, he was correct about how the Republic had become rotten at its core and no longer governed by law, order and discipline.
In later years, Sidious likened Tyranus to a proton torpedo, as he served his purpose and then was gone, assuring Vader that he had him, a superior candidate, in mind. While having a Force vision surrounding Luke Skywalker, Sidious appreciated that he was a simple boy who did not look like an "old wizard" just as Tyranus. After Vader faced Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn, who was trained in the arts of Sith combat by one of Darth Sidious' apprentices, Sidious knew Tyranus was not behind her training as Qi'ra did not have a royal background. Instead, he quickly realized Maul had been behind her training.

Lasting impact

"Separatist is a pejorative term. I support democracy. Count Dooku was a visionary. He was cut short in his prime by the Jedi enforcer—"
―Helgait
     Skywalker succeeded Darth Tyranus as Sidious' apprentice, becoming the Sith Lord Darth Vader, and enforced the Galactic Empire they forged.  
In the years following the fall of the Galactic Empire, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Jedi Order that had been suppressed by the Empire. In his search for knowledge, Skywalker became aware of Dooku. During his self-imposed exile on Ahch-To, Skywalker wrote a book he titled The Secrets of the Jedi, which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. In the book, Skywalker included an illustration depicting Dooku along with information pertaining to the Sith Lord. Skywalker wrote about Dooku's reasoning for leaving the Jedi Order as well as his instrumental role in Sidious' conspiracy. Skywalker described Dooku's death at the hands of his father as an execution in cold blood.
In 9 ABY, Commissioner Helgait of Plazir-15, a former Separatist supporter, decided to employ a tempered batch of Nepenthé lubricant to reset all reprogrammed battle droids now serving Plazir-15's population back into their attack mode to kill the planet's population. When confronted by Din Djarin and Bo-Katan Kryze, Helgait cited Dooku as a "visionary" who was cut short in his prime by the Jedi.
Fifty years after Dooku's death, a treasure hunt known as the Hunt for Dooku's Treasure occurred on Ponemah Terminal. Those taking part hoped to find kyber crystals, but were surprised to find the treasure was a clone trooper who had been held captive for the last 50 years. The trooper, Kix, had learned the truth of Order 66 after being confronted about it by his fellow clone trooper friend Fives. Kix was saved by the pirate crew of Sidon Ithano and joined the crew.

Personality and traits

"I sense great fear in you, Skywalker. You have hate. You have anger. But you don't use them."
―Dooku duels Anakin Skywalker
     Dooku was a charismatic statesman deft at manipulation and deception.  
Dooku was an aging human male who had light skin, brown eyes, white hair, and a height of 1.96 meters. He was a connoisseur of wine, and favored technique over brute strength in lightsaber combat.
Dooku was once a respected Jedi and, during the Separatist Crisis, he was viewed as a "political idealist" by his former peers. During his time in the Order, Dooku chafed at the Jedi's disdain for technology. After meeting her, Dooku secretly kept in contact with his sister Jenza and grew close to her. His independent spirit helped push him away from the Jedi Order. By the time he was a Sith, Dooku had come to believe the Jedi had wasted their powers but that he had not squandered his own. Dooku became increasingly disillusioned with the Galactic Senate's corruption and the arrogance and apparent complacency of the Jedi Order, eventually coming to desire the downfall of both institutions he'd once served.
After Sidious exploited Dooku's anger at the Republic to turn the count to the dark side, Dooku—having become the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus—was a menacing, intelligent, powerful, manipulative, arrogant, and amoral, yet charismatic statesman with a refined and educated character befitting an aristocrat of the last years of the Republic Era; in public, he maintained the image of a humanitarian leader who truly wanted what was best for the Confederacy, while in secret he looked for greater power as a Sith and was willing to advance his plans with methods that included torture, assassination, and even genocide. Because the Order served the Republic, Dooku believed the Jedi were dishonored and were not to be trusted. Dooku also protested the failure of the Republic, bringing numerous systems to the Confederacy, yet his true motives remained hidden. The Count truly wanted to rule a new Sith Empire at the side of Darth Sidious, whom he believed would bring order back to the galaxy.

     Dooku obediently served Sidious while dreaming of taking his Master's place as the reigning Dark Lord of the Sith.  
Despite her pleas for him to return to the light, Dooku was so committed to the dark side that he even had his own sister, Jenza, killed. Still, at least early in the war, Dooku's former master Yoda believed he could return Dooku to the light side if given the chance. Dooku was skilled at recruiting allies to his side, not only using his wealth, but also his natural charm and intense gravitas. Nevertheless, he was willing to betray his own followers and allies, such as Asajj Ventress and Pre Vizsla, though he showed some regret over abandoning Ventress, angering his own master, Darth Sidious. He even betrayed and orchestrated the death of his former friend Sifo-Dyas. Dooku was very vindictive, as shown when he ordered devastating attacks against Mother Talzin and Hondo Ohnaka for crossing him in the past. Dooku was also quite fearless, and was willing to sacrifice himself in a final attempt to fully convert his last apprentice, Quinlan Vos, to the dark side by tempting Vos to strike him down after he mortally wounded Vos' lover, Ventress.
Dooku initially felt remorse for betraying the Jedi, as he confronted Sidious over the latter making him betray his own people. However, due to the death of his former padawan Qui-Gon and what he had already done, he felt it was too late for him to go back, which led to him committing to the Dark Side and becoming Sidious' second apprentice.
Dooku was willing to betray Sidious for power; towards the end of the Clone Wars, he conspired with Quinlan Vos and Maul to attempt to overthrow Sidious. He had the same plans with Ventress and Savage Opress.

     The masterful lightsaber wielder Dooku  
Despite his hatred towards the Jedi, he did still express fondness towards Qui-Gon. The death of Qui-Gon hurt him and was a factor in him becoming Sidious' next apprentice. During his conversation with his Padawan's Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi on Geonosis, which was 10 years after Qui-Gon's death, Dooku expressed some sadness over his Padawan's death. Dooku also attempted to recruit Kenobi to his cause. The Separatist leader wished to persuade Kenobi to join him, and to that end, he revealed that the Republic was controlled by a Sith named Darth Sidious, although Kenobi refused to believe the duplicitous Dooku. Dooku was actually polite to Obi-Wan when he interrogated him as he did not act hostile in anyway. When Kenobi refused to join the treaty, Dooku had no problem with attempting to kill him.
Dooku had intended for his claim to be too outrageous for Kenobi to believe, even though it was true, meaning he had fulfilled his plan. During the ensuing Clone Wars, Dooku would often tell Jedi he encountered that he was hunting the Sith Lord he had told Kenobi of, yet the Jedi nevertheless saw that the Count used Sith powers. Indeed, the Jedi Order was aware of his true nature as a Sith Lord during the war.

     In his final moments, Dooku realized he was a pawn to his master  
While he was obedient to Sidious, he desired to eventually overthrow him and become the Sith master himself. However, he was unaware that he was just a pawn of Sidious, who was using him until it was time for Sidious to discard and replace him. He saw himself as Sidious' apprentice, but was unaware that Sidious never saw him that way and instead, viewed him as a pawn he could use until his purpose was served. While he desired to overthrow Sidious, he was unaware that Sidious similarly planned on having him replaced with Anakin. Dooku's obliviousness to his time running out and Sidious' true motives, led to his undoing. When Sidious instructed Anakin to kill a disarmed and beaten Dooku, Dooku was in a state of disbelief. At that point, Dooku gained some new understandings of what had transpired; he had been used and was now being betrayed by his own secret master, and that betrayal was Sidious'/Sith's way.

Powers and abilities

"Powerful you have become, Dooku. The dark side I sense in you.""I have become more powerful than any Jedi. Even you."
―Yoda and Count Dooku
     Dooku was a powerful Force wielder and a master lightsaber duelist.  
A man of formidable power that was exemplified by his Sith name of Tyranus, Dooku was a highly skillful lightsaber duelist even in his old age. During his time as a Jedi, he was known as one of the Order's finest swordsmen; it was said that Yoda was his only superior and Mace Windu was his only equal. On Geonosis, Dooku was able to easily defeat both Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker one immediately after the other, and then go on to fight Yoda himself. Dooku was able to contend with Yoda but elected to retreat when he was unable to defeat his former master. He would often prove to be equal and even superior to Skywalker and Kenobi even as their skill grew during the Clone Wars, dueling Skywalker on several occasions, proving to be his superior until Skywalker was powerful enough to overcome the Count.
Among the most skilled swordsmen the galaxy had ever seen, Dooku was a practitioner of the second form of lightsaber combat, Makashi. Makashi was designed specifically for lightsaber-to-lightsaber duels. As such, it was considered obsolete in a time when most Jedi were more likely to face blaster-wielding opponents. The style's rarity gave Dooku an advantage when engaging in lightsaber duels, as few of his enemies were trained to defend themselves against it. Makashi relied on precision, swiftness, and economy of movement, and Dooku's curved-hilt lightsaber was designed especially for that. Dooku mastered Makashi to such a degree that he was considered the finest practitioner of the form ever. He was also capable of effectively making up for its weaknesses.[source?]

     Dooku wielded a curved-hilt lightsaber and favored the second form of lightsaber combat.  
In addition to his formidable lightsaber skills, Dooku was very knowledgeable and skilled in the use of the Force. He demonstrated great prowess and strength in the use of telekinesis. During his duels with Ventress and his escape from Hondo's pirates, he displayed great skill at using telekinesis in finer, more precise tasks, such as disarming Ventress while also levitating her against a wall during her failed attempt to kill him with Savage Opress. He was even capable of telekinetically manipulating people's motor skills, such as when he Force choked while simultaneously forcing Turk Falso to take out his blaster and shoot his comrade, while he performed a similar feat when he made Padmé Amidala aim at and shoot Bec Lawise.
Dooku was also highly skilled in the use of Force lightning, using it as both a means of torture and execution, and was able to use it in conjunction with telekinesis, usually to send a person flying with his lightning or even to levitate his opponents while using his lightning on them, as he demonstrated on Ventress and two Nightsister assassins.

Equipment

"That lightsaber. It's—Where did you get that?""I made it, of course."
―Jak'zin and Dooku, on Dooku's lightsaber
     Dooku was presented a Sith Infiltrator for his use after becoming a Sith apprentice.  
Conscious of his aristocratic status, Dooku preferred to wear elegant garments—whether as a member of the Jedi Order, the Count of his homeworld Serenno, or as the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus—befitting his elevated station. His wardrobe included a hand-woven tunic made on Vjun and a Serennian cloak, that was an emblem of the Count of Serenno, held by a clasp of Serenno silver. In addition, his sleepwear consisted of exquisite pajamas that he purchased from one of the most exclusive tailors in the galaxy. Dooku's pajamas were stitched only from the finest silks, its elegant patterning rivaled only by the prominent monogram on his front pocket.

     Dooku preferred ship during the Clone Wars was a Punworcca 116-class solar sailer.  
In addition to the various capital ships he made use of as leader of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Dooku also owned several personal vehicles. After becoming apprentice to Darth Sidious, he was presented with his own Sith Infiltrator. During the Separatist Crisis, the Geonosians gifted Dooku with a personal Punworcca 116-class solar sailer and Flitknot Speeder Bike, both of which he used to escape the Battle of Geonosis and throughout the ensuing Clone Wars.

Behind the scenes
Portrayal

"He's very aloof, very self-contained, obviously completely fearless. He is extremely intelligent, perhaps more so than almost anyone else. He's obviously a man of immense power. I don't suppose that the question of moral values enter into his head. He's not immoral—he's amoral. Morality is a word that doesn't figure in his vocabulary at all. It's power. Which is something that exists very much in our world today."
―Sir Christopher Lee's thoughts on his character Dooku
     Christopher Lee with George Lucas on the set of Attack of the Clones  
Dooku was portrayed by Sir Christopher Lee in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. Kyle Rowling portrayed Dooku during most of the character's lightsaber sequences, due to Lee's inability to enact these physical scenes because of his age. Rowling's head was digitally replaced with Lee's during post-production.

     Early concept art of Dooku by iain McCaig  
Dooku's character underwent multiple development iterations during the creative process of Attack of the Clones; artists Iain McCaig and Dermot Power experimented with various female Sith designs, including dark queens, robotic warriors, and vampiric witches as well as a shape-shifting alien concept that eventually evolved into Zam Wesell, until George Lucas eventually decided on the idea of a battle-scarred Jedi warrior who parted ways with the Jedi Order. The final designs of the character were intended to reflect the menacing atmosphere conveyed by Peter Cushing's portrayal of Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope.
Christopher Lee reprised his role in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars film, while Corey Burton voiced Dooku in the subsequent TV series and the animated anthology series Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi.


Character origins and name

"Don't think of it as a first name, but a singular name. The aristocracy of Serenno only use one name, but use the format Dooku of House Serenno, not Dooku Serenno."
―Cavan Scott on whether "Dooku" is the character's first or last name
     The audio drama Dooku: Jedi Lost covered the backstory of Count Dooku.  
The name "Dooku" was based on the Japanese word "doku," meaning poison. In the Galician and Portuguese languages, "do cu," pronounced exactly as in "Dooku," means "from the ass" or "of the ass." For this reason, Dooku's name was changed to "Dookan" in Brazil. According to Cavan Scott, author of the audio drama Dooku: Jedi Lost, "Dooku" in fact does not qualify as the character's first nor last name, with "Dooku" instead being a singular name. In developing Jedi Lost, which covered Dooku's canon backstory, Scott and his fellow creatives considered giving the count another name but ultimately decided against it. As such, Scott has noted Serennian aristocracy only use a singular name while being formally addressed as members of House Serenno. In effect, Dooku's full name is not "Dooku Serenno" as some fans assumed, but the count would answer to the formal title "Dooku of House Serenno."
Tyranus—or more properly, Tyrannos—is an ancient Greek word, originally used to describe someone who ruled a city-state after overthrowing the preexisting government. It was a legitimate form of government and the word's meaning was not unfavorable in itself, but over time, as democracy developed, it gained negative connotations and came to mean "oppressor" or "tyrant."

Discrepancies
According to one Star Wars: Card Trader, San Hill - Banking Clan Chairman - Base Series 1, Dooku allied with Poggle the Lesser and San Hill in a plot to destroy their unstable ally Grievous and transform him into a cyborg to serve them. Pablo Hidalgo of the Lucasfilm Story Group said this was to be disregarded as an outdated reference to Grievous's backstory in Star Wars Legends. However, other canon sources have brought in details of Grievous's Legends backstory, including Dooku's role in the shuttle crash that injured Grievous.

     Dooku reflects on the Battle of Naboo  
Age of Republic - Count Dooku 1, Master & Apprentice, and Dooku: Jedi Lost all establish that Dooku left the Jedi before Qui-Gon Jinn's death. However, the 2019 Fantasy Flight Games sourcebook Rise of the Separatists states that Dooku credited Jinn's death as his reason for leaving the Order. As Rise of the Separatists is only a roleplaying sourcebook, this article assumes Count Dooku 1, Master & Apprentice, and Jedi Lost are correct.
During a question session for The Clone Wars: The Lost Missions, Dave Filoni revealed that Darth Sidious had Dooku and Maul as Sith apprentices concurrently. However, the fifth slide of Sidious' Databank biography gallery says that the Sith Lord brought Dooku into the Sith Order sometime after becoming Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. This slide is placed after those which cover the events of The Phantom Menace, the film in which Maul was thought to be killed. Star Wars: Secrets of the Sith stated that Dooku became a Sith apprentice after Maul's supposed death. Nonetheless, The Clone Wars episode "The Lost One" established Dooku needed to have some association with the Sith before The Phantom Menace, given he killed Sifo-Dyas during the chancellery of Finis Valorum, who was deposed in that film.
The Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi episode "The Sith Lord" later affirmed that Dooku was working alongside Darth Sidious during the events of The Phantom Menace, but he was aware of Maul being Sidious' apprentice, had not fully committed himself to the dark side, and did not yet have his Sith lightsaber. Upon the death of Yaddle in the episode, Dooku formally became Sidious' pupil.
There is an additional discrepancy for Dooku's aging; flashbacks in Age of Republic - Count Dooku 1 feature Dooku with white hair while still in the Jedi Order. while in Dooku: Jedi Lost, an apparation of Jedi Ky Narec appearing to Asajj Ventress explicitly describes Dooku's beard as having turned to gray during the time the two men knew each other as part of the Order. "The Sith Lord" later featured Dooku after leaving the Order, however he is visibly younger in this appearance, instead having black hair. As the flashbacks in the Age of Republic comic are framed as the memories of Jak'zin, this article assumes the character simply misremembered Dooku's appearance over the years.

Non-canon history
     Dooku in The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual  

"As a Sith Lord, Dooku was great at swordplay, strategy, and kneeling before dudes in hooded capes."
―The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual
Dooku is mentioned in the 2016 non-canon reference book LEGO Star Wars: The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual, which is written as an in-universe guidebook for stormtrooper cadets. It established that Dooku was a famous historical figure, used his curved lightsaber to cut the crusts off sandwiches, and went by the rap name MC Eyebrows. It also explained that he scowled so much due to him surgically removing his other facial expressions, and among his defining attributes was kneeling before robed individuals.
