    
I have a bad feeling about this…This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work. 
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{Expand}})
This article would benefit from the addition of one or more new images. ({{Image}})
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{Update}}) The article needs to be updated with Queen's Hope, Brotherhood, Age of Republic - Padmé Amidala 1, Darth Vader (2020) 4, Darth Vader (2020) 28, Darth Vader (2020) 29, Darth Vader (2020) 30, Darth Vader (2020) 31, Darth Vader (2020) 32, Revelations (2022) 1.
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's talk page for more information.







Dormé


Biographical information

Homeworld
Naboo



Descriptive information

Species
Human (Naboo)


Gender
Female


Pronouns
She/her


Height
1.65 meters


Hair color
Brown


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Light



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Royal House of NabooNaboo Royal HandmaidensGalactic RepublicNaboo delegationAmidalansGalactic EmpireSith


[Source]



"She has such steady hands. And she can see a whole pattern in her head and then make it fit where she needs it to go."
―Ruwee Naberrie
Dormé, formerly known as Dorra, was a human female handmaiden in the service of Senator Padmé Amidala during the Separatist Crisis and the Clone Wars. Dormé was her most devoted aide and confidant. After Amidala's death, Dormé joined the Amidalans, named after the late senator.

Biography
Early life
At some point, Dorra undertook security forces training alongside Gregar Typho but stayed in the Academy to go through a modified version of handmaiden training. After Padmé Amidala's term as queen of Naboo ended and she accepted the role of representing Naboo in the Galactic Senate, Typho recommended Dorra as a potential new handmaiden. She worked as the wardrobe mistress amongst the handmaidens.

Separatist Crisis
Dormé traveled with Amidala to Coruscant to vote in the Senate on the Military Creation Act, an act that called for the creation of an army for the Galactic Republic to combat the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Amidala got another handmaiden, Cordé, to be a decoy. However, Amidala's ship was attacked by the bounty hunter Zam Wesell, killing Cordé and several others. Dormé went with Amidala when she went with the Loyalist Committee to discuss this attempt with Supreme Chancellor Palpatine. During this meeting, Palpatine told Amidala she must hide on Naboo, despite her protests. Palpatine eventually decided to try compromising with Amidala by choosing Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker, both of whom Amidala was familiar with, to be her bodyguards.
Dormé was later present when Amidala was reunited with Kenobi and Skywalker, the later of whom promised to find whoever was trying to kill Amidala. After another attempt on Amidala's life, Dormé ran into Amidala's room and asked if she was all right, as Kenobi and Skywalker ran to find the assassin. This made both the Jedi Council and Senate agree that Amidala was safer on Naboo. Later, Amidala was put on a transport along with Dormé, Skywalker, Kenobi and Typho that took them to a spaceport in order for Skywalker and Amidala to travel, disguised as refugees, back to Naboo. When Amidala said she had to leave and that Typho would protect Dormé, Dormé assured Amidala that he'd be safe with her. Seeing a tear roll down Dormé's cheek, Amidala assured Dormé she'd be fine. Dormé then said she wasn't worried about herself, but was worried that the killer would find out that Amidala had left Coruscant, with Amidala responding that her Jedi protector would have to prove how good he was.
With Amidala gone, she helped in the Galactic Senate by settling Naboo's affairs. Soon after, the Military Creation Act was passed and the Clone Wars began.

Clone Wars
In 21 BBY, she was unable to supervise Amidala's negotiations with the Arthurian delegates as she had to go home to Naboo for family matters.
Later, Amidala went to Ahsoka Tano to ask her to help instead. When she told her she had other security, she said that Typho would be there but Dormé was not. She said that even though she had other handmaidens, she wanted her. Tano ended up accepting and saved her life after Cato Parasitti tried to kill her.
Dormé later accompanied Amidala on a mission to Clabron to planet Clabron. Initially, she was responsible for piloting Amidala's starship to their destination before the Senator insisted she take over, explaining that she desired to avoid any accountability for her handmaidens should their mission go awry. Dormé soon joined Moteé in the cabin, where her counterpart inquired if she was aware of the relationship between Amidala and Skywalker. Dormé remarked that the Senator and Jedi Knight both lacked subtlety, suspecting it's why they got along so well before reminding Moteé of their duty to keep Amidala's confidence.
Upon their arrival, Amidala noted the landing platform was deserted. A shadowy figure hidden behind a door warned the three Naboo to leave, shortly before Moteé was shot in the shoulder. Dormé provided cover fire so Amidala could move Moteé, but was annoyed when the Senator went towards the door instead of the ship. Rejoining her companions, Dormé accused the figure, Second Minister Tarmin, of being involved with the ambushed, which he denied. Amidala then convinced Tarmin to allow them inside to treat Moteé's words, where she subsequently had words with a mortally wounded Grand Minister Stin. Sometime afterwards, Dormé and Moteé escorted a disguised Tarmin as Amidala's decoy back to their ship, while the Senator ambushed the assassin, Lis Mohles. Dormé then personally dragged Mohles up the boarding ramp to bring her back to face Republic justice.
Towards the end of the war, Dormé accompanied Amidala and Moteé on a diplomatic mission to the planet Clabron. On arrival, they were ambushed by an assassin and Moteé slapped him on the shoulder. They fled inside the building, where Amidala managed to strike a deal with the new minister. They then ambushed the sniper and captured him so they could return to Coruscant.

The Imperial era
In 19 BBY, Amidala died on Polis Massa, two days after the creation of the Galactic Empire, when Palpatine declared himself emperor, giving birth to her twin children Luke and Leia Amidala Skywalker. Luke was taken in by his aunt and uncle Beru and Owen Lars while Leia was adopted by Amidala's friend and colleague Senator Bail Organa and his wife Queen Breha Organa of Alderaan.
Amidala's funeral took place in Naboo's capital city Theed and was attended by thousands of mourners as well as Amidala's family and several of Amidala's former handmaidens. The birth of Amidala's children was kept a secret and was made to still appear pregnant at her funeral by her mortician Commodex Tahn using a hologram. Publicly, Amidala's death was blamed on the supposed Jedi Rebellion that had sparked Order 66 which had triggered the execution of the Jedi by the Republic's clone troopers.
Later, Amidala's former handmaiden Sabé, Captains Tonra and Gregar Typho of the Royal Naboo Security Forces, along with others loyal to Amidala, met in her Coruscant apartment and pledged to hunt down and kill the person responsible for her death. This would lead to the formation of a resistance group known as the Amidalans of which Dormé was a member along with several other of Amidala's former handmaidens such as Sabé, Saché, Eirtaé, and Rabé who served Amidala during her time as queen.

Personality and traits
Dormé had brown hair, brown eyes and light skin. She was very devoted to Amidala. During the Separatist Crisis, when she was about to part with Amidala, she expressed her concern over Amidala's safety and rushed to her side after a second attempt on her life by the assassin Zam Wesell.
Dormé was also skilled at wood carving, having learnt from her great grandmother, with Amidala's father, Ruwee Naberrie, claiming that she was the best he had seen in a long time and leading his eldest daughter, Sola to joke about her father adopting Dormé.

Equipment
Dormé wore a gray tailored dress and coat.

Behind the scenes
Dormé was portrayed by Australian actress Rose Byrne in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. Though not actually visible in the film, Dormé was scripted to have quietly laughed during Anakin Skywalker's outburst of frustration while Padmé Amidala packed to depart from Coruscant.
