







E'ronoh


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim TerritoriesGalactic Frontier


Sector
Dalnan sector


System
Eiram system


Moons
1: Eirie


Grid square
I-19



Physical information

Terrain
Rocky


Fauna
Thylefire scorpion



Societal information

Other species
HumanPantoran


Government
Monarchy


Demonym
E'roni


Major cities
The Rook (capital)


[Source]

E'ronoh was a planet in the Eiram system that was the twin world of Eiram. E'ronoh was a dusty and rocky desert world. The world once had rivers, but they dried away, leaving marks of where they once flowed. As the star system was a waypoint in hyperspace, E'ronoh competed with its twin for control of the area, with both planets entering into war at many times over their histories.

Description
E'ronoh was a planet covered in mountains and rocky terrain. It orbited a star, with it's twin planet in the Eiram System. In between Eiram and E'ronoh, Eirie a tidally locked moon was located. On E'ronoh the moon was coloquially known as the Timekeeper Moon. Due to the planet's desert-like surface, its canyons and mountains were often plagued with dust storms. It was populated by a various amount of sentient beings, particularly humans. The capital of the planet, The Rook, held the monarchy of the planet. Due to repeated conflicts with it's neighbor planet, the planet was in a war torn state by the time of 382 BBY. The nights of E'ronoh were desribed as unforgiving for their cold.

History
War with Eiram

"M-my gran used to say when she was small, they measured time not by the moon, but by when Eiram's ships flew over the city."
―Bly "Blitz" Tevin
A generation before 382 BBY a wave of refugees from Pantora and other systems came to E'ronoh as it had been a prosperous beacon of promise before the war between Eiram and E'ronoh was reignited again.
During 382 BBY, 150 years before the Great Hyperspace Disaster, the world of E'ronoh was caught in a five year long war with its twin planet Eiram. The conflict was elongated due to the failure of a Diplomatic mission to Eiram, Monarch A'lbaran's heir, Niko A'lbaran was sent to Eiram for peace talks. The mission ended in failure when the transport suffered an accident, leading to Niko's death. Monarch A'lbaran increased the attacks against Eiram, and the war continued.
In the 5th year of the conflict, a humanitarian corridor was opened, as an ice hauler was scheduled to transport water supplies to the thirsty E'ronoh populace. The momentary peace was broken, when a fighter from Thylefire Squadron moved into the corridor and began attacking the Eiram fleet, who saw this as a sign of aggression and began to open fire.
As the fighting started, Jedi Longbeam cruisers arrived with aid requested by Eiram. These Longbeam's moved to Eirie to assess damage sustained in the crossfire. Supreme Chancellor Orlen Mollo joined the Jedi contingent, which included; Jedi Master Creighton Sun, Jedi Knight Gella Nattai, Jedi Master Char-Ryl-Roy and Padawan Enya Keen. The Jedi quickly moved into calm the situation, with Knight Gella Nattai managing to get an understanding of the situation from Princess Xiri A'lbaran, Captain of Thylefire Squadron.
The ship that crossed the corridor had been commandeered without the knowledge of it's pilot Bly Tevin. Captain A'lbaran and Jedi Knight Nattai tried to gain control of the ship, but failed, A'lbaran then managed to crash both her and Tevin into the Eiram ocean surrounding Erasmus Capital City instead of the city itself. Leading to the death of Tevin, A'lbaran swam to the coast of Erasmus, where she was met by Phan-tu Zenn.
The princess of E'ronoh was transported to Erasmus Capital City and met with Queen Adrialla. After talking with Zenn and the queen, the Jedi managed to convince Monarch A'lbaran into having peaceful negotiations aboard Chancellor Mollo's Longbeam. As the peace talks began, both leaders began to falter in their negotiations, worrying Master Sun. With E'ronoh's Viceroy Ferrel fanning the flames of dissent between the two. Princess A'lbaran and Prince Zenn proposed a marriage between the two worlds, a daughter of E'ronoh, and a son of Eiram, to end the conflict and attain lasting peace.
As a tentative peace now formed, Jedi Knight Nattai accompanied the heirs, and the son of Co-Chancellor Kyong Greylark, Axel Greylark, as they delivered humanitarian aid to the suffering E'ronoh population. As the group traveled the deserts, they encountered various dangers and challenges along the way. As they returned to The Rook, Zenn and A'lbaran grew closer. And as the wedding of the heirs came closer, Greylark and Zenn investigated a research facility containing a particularly strong type of poison gas. After the discovery of the poison, Zenn confronted his mother and learned the truth about the deal that was made and broken between Eiram and the Path of the Open Hand. On the wedding day, Axel Greylark, devised a plot to take out the Republic and the Eiram system's leaders. Viceroy Ferrel's son planned revenge on the heirs for the princess's "weakness" against Eiram. Both plans were stopped as Nattai managed to reactivate the city shields in time , and Princess A'lbaran killed the Viceroy's son.
As Axel was imprisoned by Republic forces, Jedi Knight Nattai gave the heirs the idea of holding the signing of the peace treaty on Jedha. Both heirs agreed, and long-awaited peace seemed to be on the horizon.

Failed peace

"Everything's fine. I just need a minute to compose myself. This is, after all, a momentous affair. The signing of this peace treaty is a key moment in galactic history. Eiram and E'ronoh have been at war for over five years. And now, following the marriage of their heirs. The worlds have finally come together in peace."
―Tilson Graf
E'ronoh sent Ambassador Tintak to meet with his Eiram counterpart in the Second Spire of Jedha City. The signing was presided over by Jedi Master Sun, Mediator Morton San Tekka, and the Guardians of the Whills. As the signing started, a rogue security droid flew past their security and exploded. The explosion caused the death of San Tekka, leading to Tilson Graf taking his place. As the second attempt of the signing took place the day after, rioters, inspired by the Path of Open Hand's Herald, attempted to storm the spire. Ambassador Tintak was evacuating to his shuttle when a speeder, carrying a person dressed in an Eiram military uniform murdered Tintak. E'ronoh's forces blamed Eiram for the attack, and attacked Ambassador Cerox's bodyguards. E'ronoh forces were deployed and engaged Eiram's in the city. The Jedi stationed on Jedha managed gain control of the conflict, and both armies retreated to their homeworlds. With the treaty signing all but lost, peace with Eiram was uncertain.

Finally reaching a peace
During a cold war between both worlds, E'ronoh was ruled by Monarch Cassel, a Pantoran. Cassel was kidnapped by members of the Directorate, who also kidnapped Queen Thandeka of Eiram, causing a hostage crisis in which the two worlds turned to the Jedi Order for assistance. As the Eiram–E'ronoh crisis continued, Eiram along with E'ronoh, offered a ransom to the Directorate and started to investigate the kidnappings on their own. After the crisis came to an end, Eiram and E'ronoh's relationship rapidly improved, and they warmed to the Republic, allowing the Starlight Beacon to be built in their territory.

Imperial Era
During the reign of the Galactic Empire, E'ronoh was under Imperial control. The planet was orbited by at least one Star Destroyer and its cities were patrolled by stormtroopers. Smuggler Sana Starros and the Weequay criminal Jand raided an Imperial warehouse, where they found several Po'acksters. However, Starros left without taking them, saying she did not deal with livestock.



 This article is a stub about a planet. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
