Elan Sel'Sabagno


Descriptive information

Species
Balosar


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.78 meters


Hair color
Brown


Skin color
Light


[Source]



"You wanna buy some death sticks?""You don't want to sell me death sticks.""I don't wanna sell you death sticks.""You want to go home and rethink your life.""I wanna go home and rethink my life."
―Elan Sleazebaggano and Obi-Wan Kenobi
Elan Sel'Sabagno, also known as Elan Sleazebaggano, was a male Balosar death stick dealer on the planet Coruscant during the Separatist Crisis. A chance encounter with Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his mind tricks resulted in Sel'Sabagno deciding to take up a more honest life.

Biography
Elan Sel'Sabagno was a male Balosar who was active on Coruscant, the capital of the Galactic Republic, during the Separatist Crisis. A small-time criminal, Sel'Sabagno made money as a slythmonger,[source?] tending to tour Coruscant's nightclubs to sell his addictive death sticks. In 22 BBY, shortly before the outbreak of the Clone Wars, Sel'Sabagno was present in the Outlander Club and attempted to sell his death sticks in the drinks bar to Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi, who was searching for the Clawdite bounty hunter Zam Wesell. Kenobi used a mind trick to convince Sel'Sabagno that he did not want to sell the Jedi any death sticks and instead wanted to go home and rethink his life.
Kenobi's mind trick convinced Sel'Sabagno to begin living an honest life for himself. By the time Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker were assisting Wesell at the back of the establishment, Sel'Sabagno had already left the club. In the Imperial Era, Sel'Sabagno, by then with a child of his own, passed by a conversation between Leia Organa and Forzaa on Coruscant.

Personality and traits
Always searching for credits, Elan Sel'Sabagno made his living selling death sticks to patrons of the Outlander Club and other hot spots in the underlevels of Coruscant, targeting both desperate addicts and unwise thrill-seekers. However, Sel'Sabagno was weak-minded, as Obi-Wan Kenobi performed a mind trick on him and convinced him to not sell death sticks to the Jedi Knight and to go home to rethink his life, with Sel'Sabagno deciding to take up an honest life.

Behind the scenes

"Elan Sleazebaggano was altered in postproduction, too late for toys in the works to change. The proper Elan has no ears. Reference photography didn't have this digital alteration. Toys had a running change to remove his ears."
―Pablo Hidalgo
Elan Sleazebaggano was portrayed by Matt Doran in the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. The character was named by Star Wars creator George Lucas. In Star Wars Legends, the character was identified as Elan Sel'Sabagno.
Although Sel'Sabagno's ears were replaced by antennapalps in post-production of Attack of the Clones, the reference photography didn't have the digital alteration, causing early Sleazebaggano toys to have ears instead of antennapalps.
