







Enoch


Descriptive information

Pronouns
He/him



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Thrawn's forcesThrawn's Night Trooper legion


[Source]



"This is Enoch, captain of my guard."
―Grand Admiral Thrawn
Enoch was Grand Admiral Thrawn's Captain of the Guard during his forces' exile from the galaxy on the planet Peridea since 1 ABY. When Morgan Elsbeth brought her intergalactic transport ring, the Eye of Sion, there around 9 ABY, the captain led Thrawn's legion of Night Troopers aboard the Star Destroyer Chimaera to greet Elsbeth. Although the Imperials and their Dathomiri allies wished to return to the known galaxy, they also wanted to eliminate the threat of the Jedi Ezra Bridger; Enoch introduced Bridger's friend Sabine Wren to a howler in Peridea's Dathomiri fortress before sending them off into Peridea's wilderness, intending to track and destroy the Jedi using the mercenaries Baylan Skoll and Shin Hati.
Thrawn's plans were interrupted by the warrior Ahsoka Tano's arrival at Peridea. Aboard the Eye of Sion, Captain Enoch deployed starfighters to stall Tano's shuttle, which nevertheless joined Bridger and Wren on the planet surface. Enoch also prepared two squads of troopers to reinforce Skoll and Hati against Thrawn's enemies, but they persisted and reached the Dathomiri fortress. By that time, Enoch's troopers had completed transferring cargo from the catacombs to the Chimaera, which docked with the Eye of Sion; while Night Troopers volunteers and Elsbeth herself battled the incoming warriors on Peridea, Enoch accompanied Thrawn on the Eye of Sion as it departed to the known galaxy, reaching the world Dathomir.

Biography
Far, far away.…

"Be warned. Nomads wander this wasteland and prey upon each other for survival. Here are your weapons. Die well."
―Enoch, to Sabine Wren
     Captain Enoch led Thrawn's forces on Peridea.  
During the Galactic Civil War's Battle of Lothal between the Rebellion and the Galactic Empire in 1 BBY, Imperial Grand Admiral Thrawn's personal Star Destroyer, the Chimaera, was captured by a pod of purrgil summoned by the Jedi Ezra Bridger. Thrawn's forces and Bridger himself were subsequently stranded outside the galaxy on the planet Peridea, in another galaxy, while the Empire lost the war and was replaced by the New Republic in 5 ABY. Enoch served as Captain of the Guard for Thrawn's surviving legion of stormtroopers, commanding his loyal Night Troopers as the Grand Admiral rebuilt the Chimaera and allied with Peridea's Dathomiri Great Mothers.
Their isolation ended with the arrival of Thrawn's servant Morgan Elsbeth around 9 ABY, when her intergalactic transport ring, the Eye of Sion reached Peridea's orbit. Elsbeth and her mercenaries, Baylan Skoll and Shin Hati, descended in a smaller starship to meet the Great Mothers at the henge atop Peridea's Dathomiri fortress before the group was received by the Chimaera, which perched with its hangar encasing the site. In the hanger, Captain Enoch led Thrawn's legion to greet those Force users with the exiled Grand Admiral himself. After Thrawn introduced Enoch as his troopers' leader, the admiral agreed to begin transferring the Dathomiri catacombs onto the Star Destroyer, as per his agreement with the Great Mothers for facilitating a means of returning to the known galaxy. The captain ordered his troopers to enter the catacombs while he himself stayed with Thrawn and his guests.

     Enoch and his men saw Wren off on her quest.  
The Night Troopers also retrieved the prisoner that the mercenaries had brought with them—the Lothal rebel veteran Sabine Wren, who wished to find her missing friend, Bridger. Wanting to hunt down the Jedi himself, Thrawn ordered Enoch to remove Wren's stuncuffs and to provide her resources to traverse the perilous wastelands of Peridea. Captain Enoch and several troopers led Wren down to the fortress' ground entrance chamber, introducing her to a howler that had been domesticated as a mount. After commanding the creature to lie down for Wren to mount it, Enoch cautioned Wren about the violent nomads who lived on Peridea, and he passed on her blaster pistols and lightsaber before the fortress entrance opened. Wishing that Wren would "die well," the captain stood alongside his troopers to watch her ride out into the wastelands.
Baylan Skoll and Shin Hati subsequently rode out on howler mounts as well in pursuit of Wren. Enoch informed Thrawn, who had been inspecting a star map of the galaxy with Elsbeth in the fortress, of their departure. The captain turned to leave the room after acknowledging Thrawn's order to prepare two attack squads and await Skoll's signal, but he swiveled back to face Elsbeth when she asked whether more troops should be sent to aid the mercenaries; the Grand Admiral insisted that they could spare no more soldiers due to their dwindling numbers in their exile and sent Enoch away.

The din of space

"Captain Enoch. You have the coordinates. Open fire."
―Grand Admiral Thrawn, ordering Enoch and the Eye of Sion to fire upon Ahsoka Tano's position
Soon afterward, Elsbeth's pursuer and Wren's master, Ahsoka Tano, arrived over Peridea with the Jedi droid Huyang on her T-6 shuttle—they rode with a pod of purrgil, as the Great Mothers had foretold Thrawn with short notice. Nevertheless, the Grand Admiral made preparations. The purrgil flew into an Imperial minefield and re-entered hyperspace, which Enoch, from aboard the Eye of Sion, reported via hologram transmission to the Grand Admiral, who himself stood before a holographic display of the scene in the Dathomiri fortress. Enoch also reported the Jedi shuttle's presence, and that the Eye of Sion had deployed nine of its starfighters to redirect Tano into Peridea's debris field.

     Enoch, via hologram, took orders from Thrawn to interrupt the arrival of Ahsoka Tano.  
Thrawn was satisfied, given that he knew Tano would behave similar to her master—the headstrong Jedi General Anakin Skywalker with whom Thrawn had worked decades ago—and ordered Enoch to withdraw the starfighters and have them stand by; the Great Mothers pinpointed Tano's coordinates with their magick, allowing Thrawn to summon Enoch to attack. The Eye of Sion unleashed a barrage of laserfire into the debris field, and the fighters resumed their engagement with the escaping shuttle in Peridea's atmosphere.
Meanwhile, the mercenaries had joined forces with the nomadic bandits and tracked Wren to Bridger, with Hati relaying the Jedi's coordinates to Captain Enoch. Informing Thrawn of the discovery via hologram, Enoch received the Grand Admiral's order to send two LAAT/le patrol gunships to reinforce the mercenaries. However, Baylan Skoll pursued a goal of his own, and left Hati, the bandits, and the gunships' Night Troopers to ambush the Jedi themselves, who were then joined by Ahsoka Tano and her shuttle. Despite the loss of Teams One and Two, Thrawn was satisfied with distracting the Jedi long enough for the Chimaera to complete its cargo transfer and depart Peridea.

Shadows of starlight

"Grand Admiral, the TIE fighters made contact with the enemy and engaged.""Results?""A successful strike on the Jedi shuttle was reported before we lost contact with the flight group.""An acceptable outcome. Consider all of the TIE fighters lost. Mark their captain for a citation.""As you wish, Grand Admiral."
―Captain Enoch and Grand Admiral Thrawn, on the TIE attack on the Jedi
Enoch returned to the Dathomiri henge, where Elsbeth informed Thrawn that the cargo transfer was completed, and the Grand Admiral ordered the captain to bring the Eye of Sion down from high orbit so that it could interlock with the Chimaera. Enoch then told him that com-scan had located the Jedi's shuttle, and the captain was tasked with dispatching two TIE fighters to engage it. After Enoch walked back to the Chimaera's hangar, the TIE fighter attack successfully hit the Jedi shuttle before Enoch's command lost contact with the pilots.

     Captain Enoch and Grand Admiral Thrawn, in the hangar of the Chimaera  
The captain returned to Thrawn inside the Dathomiri fortress with the update. He was instructed to have the captain of the TIE squadron commended despite their losses and to show the Jedi's location on the room's holographic display. Thrawn concluded that preparation for an immediate ground assault was necessary, and Enoch gave way and followed as the Grand Admiral walked out of the fortress and up to the Dathomiri henge. There, they found Morgan Elsbeth and the Great Mothers preparing dozens of Night Trooper volunteers for combat with magick; the troopers had been made aware that they would serve Thrawn—and the Empire—even in death.
Back in the fortress, Enoch, Thrawn, and Elsbeth heard from a Star Navigator Droid who had been serving on the Eye of Sion that com-scan detected the incoming Jedi on their howler mounts. The Chimaera attempted to annihilate the warriors, but they entered the fortress, where they battled the Night Troopers. Enoch then followed Thrawn out of the fortress, and, alone, the Grand Admiral asked the Great Mothers at the henge to begin resurrecting the fallen Night Troopers below as more powerful zombies to delay the Jedi.
Morgan Elsbeth oversaw the Eye of Sion interlocking with the Chimaera, but just before she reported to Thrawn at the henge that the preparations were completed, Enoch spoke with him in hushed tones: the Grand Admiral asked if the captain's information was valid, to which he replied that preparations were under way. Thrawn then told Elsbeth that she must remain behind to prevent the advancing Jedi from boarding the Star Destroyer. The Grand Admiral, the captain, and the Great Mothers then walked back to the Chimaera's hangar and entered the bridge of the Eye of Sion.

     Enoch stood beside Thrawn as the Imperial leader returned to the known galaxy aboard the Eye of Sion.  
Per Thrawn's command, it fired at the Dathomiri fortress while taking off; Tano, Wren, and Huyang pursued Thrawn with their repaired shuttle after killing Elsbeth, but they were remained on Peridea while the Chimaera and its ring returned to the known galaxy. Unbeknownst to Thrawn's forces, Ezra Bridger had infiltrated the Chimaera and found his way to the New Republic. Captain Enoch joined Thrawn and the Great Mothers on the observation deck of the Chimaera's cargo hold to inform the Grand Admiral that they were approaching the world Dathomir.

Personality and traits

"Here are your weapons. Die well."
―Enoch, to Sabine Wren
The captain was an ominous sentinel who spoke with a gruff and metallic voice. Upon being introduced by Thrawn to Elsbeth and her mercenaries, Enoch gave a slow nod of acknowledgment and then gave a brisk nod toward his troopers as an order to enter the catacombs. He also nodded as a way of acknowledging orders from Thrawn. Enoch wished Sabine Wren to "die well" when he sent her out into Peridea's wilderness.

Equipment

"Tota."
―Enoch, commanding a howler
     Enoch in his full armor with his blaster  
Like many of the stormtroopers stranded aboard the Chimaera, Enoch's white armor was weathered, with cracks throughout the plastoid armor plates over his black body glove. However, Enoch's body glove was burgundy for his arms and torso, and he donned crimson gloves. The armor was also mended with metallic gold-colored accents, while several parts of the armor pieces were replaced by gray fragments. Large parts of the armor were also replaced by metallic gold pieces, including the completely golden left shoulder plate, abdominal plate, the left hand guard, and the right knee component.
His helmet displayed two red Imperial crests emblazoned at the top and a golden metallic humanoid face plate hammered into it. Golden and gray elements also jutted out at the bottom of the helmet's front in a manner resembling the bottom part of a Imperial combat assault tank pilot's helmet. Instead of a standard utility belt, the captain kept a black blaster rifle with golden accents in his holster, which he wore as a dark belt around a burgundy kama.
As a member of Thrawn's surviving legion, Enoch traveled aboard the Star Destroyer Chimaera and the Eye of Sion. He also knew how to command a howler to obey him. As Thrawn's lieutenant, he further exercised command over starfighter and gunship units, including Elsbeth's scout guard fighters and the Chimaera's surviving compliment of TIE fighters and LAAT/le patrol gunships. He was even granted command of the Eye of Sion itself during the transfer of cargo to the Chimaera and thus gave orders for how to use its firepower, as per Thrawn's orders.

Behind the scenes
Debut

"Being a part of "Ahsoka" and the Star Wars universe is a dream come true for me, and I'm looking forward to the future."
―Wes Chatham, on portraying Enoch
Enoch was created for the Ahsoka television series, portrayed by the actor Wes Chatham, who considered the role to be a highlight of his career as a long-time Star Wars fan. Enoch debuted in the episode "Part Six: Far, Far Away," which premiered on September 19, 2023.

     Enoch-inspired armor in The Old Republic  
During the production of the series, Chatham spoke with showrunner Dave Filoni about how Enoch's armor resembles the gold armor of Mordred in the 1981 film Excalibur. Following Ahsoka's release, the actor hinted at the importance of Enoch, being the single stormtrooper introduced by Thrawn.

Inspirations
At the time of Part Six's release, Twitter made an emoji of Enoch that was appended to the hashtag "#captainenoch." The hashtag "#enoch" briefly featured an emoji of another Ahsoka character—Ezra Bridger, whose emoji was also appended to the hashtags "#Ezra" and "#EzraBridger." Twitter subsequently corrected the error.
The Star Wars Legends video game Star Wars: The Old Republic's Update 7.4.1 added a "Prime Centurion Armor" that was based on Enoch's character design. The armor was announced in the February 14, 2024 update livestream and could be purchased and equipped by player characters via the game's Cartel Market feature.
