Felucia


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim TerritoriesFoundry of the Confederacy (Clone Wars)The Slice


Sector
Thanium sector


System
Felucia system


Suns
1: Felix


Orbital position
4


Moons
8


Grid square
R-6


Trade routes
Perlemian Trade Route


Rotation period
34 hours


Orbital period
231 days



Physical information

Class
Terrestrial


Diameter
9,100 kilometers


Atmosphere
Type I


Climate
Hot and humid


Gravity
Light (75% standard)


Terrain
Jungles swamps


Points of interest
Nigkoe Detention FacilityCommerce Guild headquartersSeparatist outpost


Flora
Nysillin


Fauna
Cerulean drochFelucia birdFelucian fireflyFelucian RipperFelucian snailGelagrubJungle rancorMantaSarlaccSlimesnipe



Societal information

Native species
FelucianJungle Felucian


Other species
GossamKyuzoTee-muss


Population
425 million


Demonym
Felucian


Major cities
AkiraHar GauJiaoziKway Teow (capital)Niango


Major imports
Fuel, foodstuffs, farming equipment


Major exports
Nysillin


Affiliation
Commerce GuildConfederacy of Independent SystemsGalactic Empire


[Source]



"I have spoken with the tribal leaders on Felucia. They use a very ancient dialect which is hard to understand."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi
Felucia, known as Galush prior to the formation of the Galactic Republic, was a colorful, humid jungle planet located in the Felucia system of the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories. The headquarters of the Commerce Guild, its primary agricultural export was the valuable crop nysillin, which was largely farmed by the native Felucian tribes. Its important strategic location along the Perlemian Trade Route made it a major battleground throughout the Clone Wars.

Description
     The jungles of Felucia during the Outer Rim Sieges.  
Felucia was a remote world in the Felucia system, overrun with thick, colorful, and humid jungle made up by a unique combination of fungi species. The jungle was punctuated with small farming villages populated by the planet's native Felucians, as well as occasional cities such as the capital, Kway Teow. Felucia was governed by the Commerce Guild, who represented the planet's corporate interests on the galactic stage.
The world was a hotbed of life, and several non-sentient species also inhabited the world, including Gelagrubs, jungle rancors, and tee-muss. Despite its perceived insignificance, its important location and resources (which included the healing plant nysillin) led to several conflicts both in orbit and on the surface.

History
Colonization and Republic Era
Felucia was colonized by the Gossam species, whose first expedition arrived around 27,000 BBY, where it was known as Galush up until sometime after the formation of the Galactic Republic. Seeking to exploit the nysillim resources present on the planet, the Gossams pressured the native Felucian tribes into expanding their farming operations by clearing swaths of jungle, claiming that they shared a common ancestor. The Commerce Guild, a massive galactic conglomerate, came to be headquarted just outside the walled city of Kway Teow.
In 60 BBY during the Republic Era, Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn faced trials on Felucia when he entered into a romantic relationship with someone, falling in love and violating the Jedi Code. The tear between his love and his life as a Jedi severely tested his commitment to the Jedi Order. Jinn ultimately remained loyal to the Order, but the moment remained a sore subject for him. He was also given a Mustafar fire diamond, which he kept as a treasured possession.

Clone Wars
A key planet for control of the Perlemian Trade Route, Felucia was the location of several battles between the Galactic Republic and Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. Location of Commerce Guild headquaters, place where the healing herb of nysillin was farmed, and one of the key planets of the Outer Rim, Felucia became one of the most important planets for republic operations in the sector. At first in 21 BBY, the first battle on the planet saw the Republic forces, led by Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, Ahsoka Tano, Plo Koon, dislodged by a Separatist onslaught via blockade. The Jedi and their armies were forced to retreat, as CIS forces overwhelmed them, using the jungle environment to gain the advantage. Small groups of battle droids repeatedly attacked the Republic tanks which were unable to move quickly through the dense vegetation. The Clone forces and their commanders were able to escape the planet, leaving it to the Separatists.

     Hondo Ohnaka's pirate gang terrorized a village on Felucia before being stopped.  
Later in the war, Separatist forces destroyed the Republic medical station orbiting the planet as their final move to gain full control over the planet, deploying a Vulture droid deployment station to safeguard their hold on the system. Around this time, a nysillin farming community was terrorized by Hondo Ohnaka's Florrum-based pirate gang, who stole the settlers' crop harvest. In order to protect themselves, the farmers hired a group of bounty hunters which consisted of Sugi, Embo, Seripas and Rumi Paramita. This group later grew to include stranded Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano. With their assistance, the farmers were able to fend off the pirate band and protect their village. After that both the Jedi and bounty hunters left the planet.
In 20 BBY, elements of the Republic Army, led by Generals Koon and Skywalker, and Commander Tano fought on the planet's suface, in an attempt to wrest control from the Confederacy. After days of fighting in the jungles, the Jedi and their troops came close to capturing the droid outpost. General Grievous sent his reinforcements to fortify this position as if he could hold the outpost, the last efforts of the Republic would prove meaningless, as all they would gain would be dangerous and empty forest. Regardless, the assault ended with the elimination of the Separatist outpost, opening a way to retake the rest of Felucia, though it also resulted in Ahsoka Tano's kidnapping by rogue Trandoshan hunters.
One squad from the 104th Battalion, including clone troopers Wildfire and Umbra, was left trapped on Felucia for a month. During that month, they were forced to subsist off insects. Vulture droid fighter DFS-081 once fought in a battle over Felucia. For many months Felucia would see many battles,[source?] with units such like Clone Force 99 fighting on the world, where they executed a team maneuver which was successful in destroying a number of Separatist battle droids.
The third and final battle for the planet came during the Outer Rim Sieges, with the 327th Star Corps patrolling its jungles. Led by Jedi Master Aayla Secura and Clone Commander Bly the 327th were sent to the planet to capture Separatist Council member Shu Mai. The Republic force undertaking this mission was comprised of at least one AT-TE, AT-APss, AT-OTss, Infantry Support Platforms, and a number of 327th clones along with domesticated gelagrubs. Separatist forces included at least two AATs and several OG-9 Homing spider droids. However, prior to the commencement of hostilities, Secura was executed by her clones after the enactment of Order 66.

Under the Empire

"Felucia, then—in reprisal for the way the Republic left it.""Of no significance."
―Wilhuff Tarkin and Darth Vader discussing targets along the Perlemian Trade Route
     During Berch Teller's campaign, Moff Wilhuff Tarkin suggested Felucia maybe a target for Teller, although Darth Vader disagreed (Tarkin and Vader during Teller's campaign, pictured).  
After the end of the Clone Wars and the defeat of the Separatists, Felucia fell under the control of Emperor Palpatine's new Galactic Empire. During this period, the Imperial Military maintained a large garrison in the Felucia system. However, the planet was considered to be devastated after the large fighting that occurred during the Clone Wars. Because of this, Moff Wilhuff Tarkin suggested it as a possible target for Berch Teller's insurgents, as a reprisal of sorts for the way the Republic left the planet; however, this possibility was dismissed by Darth Vader, and the rebels would attack Lucazec instead.
Around 10 BBY, Lando Calrissian pulled off a hair-raising smuggling run on the planet which helped pay off his debts with Dryden Vos of Crimson Dawn and afterwards was enjoying downtime at the Lodge on Vandor when he was approached by Tobias Beckett and his gang to transport them to Kessel. Rebel Kanan Jarrus had a contact based on Felucia, whom the Spectres delivered a crate to after their mission to steal Imperial research crates between 5 BBY and 4 BBY. During Operation Starlight, the Star Destroyer Tarkin's Will ambushed Starlight Squadron, a unit active as part of the Alliance to Restore the Republic's Fourth Division, in the deep space near Felucia.

Behind the scenes
Felucia was created for the 2005 film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, the third and final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy.
Early concept art for Felucia depicted a world of enormous bulbous plants that seeped antigravitic goo into the skies, which later evolved to become the planet Saleucami (at the time, named "Falucia"). Originally designed for an opening montage of Confederacy planets under assault by the Galactic Republic, Felucia would be ultimately used during the Order 66 montage scene, serving as the place of the death of fan favorite Aayla Secura.
Some of the earliest concept art for the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens from January 2013 featured Felucia, with images of it being drawn by Dave Filoni, Erik Tiemens, Kurt Kaufman, and Yanick Dusseault showing the Millennium Falcon landing on it by a lake, and a figure with a red lightsaber overlooking the ship. It would appear that the planet was replaced with the world that eventually became Takodana.
