
For other uses, see Fireball (disambiguation).


Fireball


Biographical information

Homeworld
Kamino



Descriptive information

Species
Human (clone)


Gender
Male


Height
1.83 meters


Hair color
Scarlet with a black streak


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Light



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic RepublicRepublic NavyGold Squadron


[Source]



"Grievous is out there, sitting on his clanky butt thinking he's got us whipped before we fire a single shot. I'm in the mood to contradict him boys. How about you?"
―Fireball briefing Gold Squadron
Fireball, or "Fib" for short, was a Captain and clone trooper pilot who led Gold Squadron.

Biography
His squadron was based on the Indomitable under the command of Admiral Wullf Yularen and General Skywalker. He defiantly colored his hair scarlet with a single black streak, yet was committed to his men and to the Republic. Before the battle of Kothlis against the Separatist Alliance, Skywalker briefed the pilots about the upcoming conflict. Upon hearing the news that communications were jammed, he spoke to his men, inspiring them. During the battle he flew next to Skywalker for a moment, pausing to give a quick smile in response to Skywalker's thumbs-up, and flew off to engage more droid starfighters. He was one of the pilots to survive the engagement, and hunted down the last of the enemy fighters while his General landed on the surface.
A few weeks later, he and his squadron were standing down at a Republic Service Organization lounge on Coruscant. He was playing turbo-darts with members of Torrent Company when Skywalker's Padawan, Ahsoka Tano arrived to brief them on an upcoming mission. Skywalker and Kenobi had gone missing on Lanteeb and a task force was going to rescue them before the Separatist General Lok Durd could release his bioweapon.
When the Republic flotilla arrived over Lanteeb, they found a blockade of Separatist ships led by General Grievous waiting for them. Senator Bail Organa had provided a captured Separatist spy ship to as a decoy so Jedi Master Taria Damsin could land and assist Skywalker and Kenobi. Fireball was assigned to "attack" the ship as a ruse, fooling Grievous into letting the ship through the blockade. Fireball was almost hit by a droid starfighter, but avoided the blast. Even though Gold Squadron lost almost a quarter of its pilots, the battle was won after a corporate fleet arrived to reinforce the Republic and forced Grievous to flee.

Personality and traits

"I'll take fighting over chitchat anyday."
―Fireball claiming his love for fighting
He dyed his hair scarlet with a black streak. According to Ahsoka Tano, he was the best pilot in Gold Squadron, next to Skywalker. He also enjoyed playing turbo-darts.

Behind the scenes
Fireball appears in the 2010 Clone Wars Gambit duology.
