Gonky


Production information

Manufacturer
Industrial Automaton


Model
GNK-series power droid


Class
Power droid



Technical specifications

Height
1.1 meters


Gender
Masculine programming


Sensor color
Red


Plating color
Brown



Chronological and political information

Affiliation
Galactic RepublicClone Force 99


[Source]



"Don't worry. We're defective too."
―Omega, to Gonky
Gonky was a defective GNK-series power droid, who served Clone Force 99 aboard the Marauder. Wrecker frequently used the droid as a weightlifting aid. As a defective unit, Gonky's power unit could not fully charge. The enhanced clone Omega used the droid as a cot for a brief time. Additionally, she spoke to Gonky on occasion, showing him her trooper doll. When the Marauder was boarded by enemy Zygerrians, Omega told the droid to hide, though he simply powered down.
Omega tried to fix Gonky's power unit to allow him to charge fully, but Hunter told her it was no use since he was a defective unit. The young clone comforted Gonky by saying that they were all defective. During the Bad Batch's mission to Daro, Gonky provided extra power to the ship when it was attacked by Imperial V-wing starfighters, but when a second group of V-wings opened fire, Gonky short circuited.
A while later after being through many events with the Bad Batch, Gonky was on Pabu as the group prepared to leave the island. He was with Wrecker while he was loading supplies, and was saved from destruction by Wrecker when CX-2 blew the Marauder to pieces in order to keep the Batch from leaving.

Skills and abilities
Gonky was capable of serving as a table for his squadmates to play board games on. Wrecker was also known to use Gonky as exercise equipment.

Personality
Gonky was shown to try and help in situations, even though there was nothing he could do, as he had to be told by Echo to stay on the ship after Cid's betrayal. He also seemed to banter with the clones, specifically Wrecker, as seen as the latter was loading supplies.

Behind the scenes
Gonky first appeared in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars episode "A Distant Echo," albeit unnamed. He was later identified on the StarWars.com Databank. In the non-canon LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, Gonky appears in the mission "Gonk with the Hyperwind," where the player escorts him to a battery slot in Pau City while protecting him from B1-series battle droids.
