GreeCC-1004


Biographical information

Homeworld
Kamino


Died
19 BBY, Kashyyyk



Descriptive information

Species
Human (clone)


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.83 meters (6ft)


Hair color
Black, later reddish-brown (dyed)


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Tan



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic Republic41st Elite Corps


[Source]



"Buckle your belts and check your cells, soldiers! We're going in!"
―Gree, to the 41st Elite Corps —  Listen (file info)
Gree, named after the species of the same name and designated CC-1004, was a Clone Commander in the Grand Army of the Republic during the galactic conflict known as the Clone Wars. Gree was born and raised on the planet Kamino as a clone of the bounty hunter Jango Fett, and under the command of Jedi General Luminara Unduli, Gree led the 41st Elite Corps in a number of battles. After Padmé Amidala and Jar Jar Binks successfully apprehended Viceroy of the Trade Federation Nute Gunray on Rodia, Gree was tasked with escorting the Viceroy back to Coruscant. He failed, however, and Gunray escaped with the help of Asajj Ventress and Senate Commando Captain Faro Argyus.
Later in the war, Gree and Unduli commanded the 41st in the Second Battle of Geonosis. Alongside the 501st Legion, led by Anakin Skywalker and Clone Captain Rex, they led an attack on Poggle the Lesser's droid foundry in an attempt to provide a distraction for Padawans Ahsoka Tano and Barriss Offee. The distraction was successful, and Tano and Offee were able to destroy the foundry and the newly produced Separatist Super tanks.
In 19 BBY, during the final days of the Clone Wars, Gree and Unduli were on Kashyyyk, where they were assisting the Wookiees in their defense against the Separatist Droid Army. Jedi Grand Master Yoda had also arrived on the planet, and he and Gree watched the battle unfold from an elevated command center. Gree received Order 66 from the Sith Lord Darth Sidious during the battle, which commanded him to eliminate his Jedi Generals. He was forced to comply, but before he could carry out the order, Yoda sensed a disturbance in the Force and quickly decapitated the clone commander.

Biography
Early life
Grown on the planet Kamino, Clone Commander CC-1004 was a clone of the infamous bounty hunter Jango Fett created to serve the Grand Army of the Republic. He underwent advanced training in the ARC program that was designed to turn the clones into leaders by developing their individual thinking. As he had developed a keen in the myriad species of the galaxy, Gree took his name from a tentacled alien species; he figured that if anyone recognized the source of the name, he would know they shared his interest in alien culture. Gree was given command of the 41st Elite Corps and appointed to serve under Jedi General Luminara Unduli during the Clone Wars.

Clone Wars
Escorting Nute Gunray

"I am a man of great wealth, and I can be very generous to my allies.""That is a very tempting offer, Viceroy. In the meantime, I have a gift for you."
―Nute Gunray and CC-1004 —  Listen (file info)
     Clone Commander CC-1004 "Gree" was the commanding officer of the 41st Elite Corps in the Grand Army of the Republic.  
When Senator Padmé Amidala was taken hostage by Viceroy of the Trade Federation Nute Gunray on a diplomatic mission to the planet Rodia, Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks called the Republic upon help. Having received their call, Gree and the Green Company were assigned to rescue Amidala, Binks, and their protocol droid, C-3PO. Upon their arrival in Rodia's Senatorial Palace aboard LAAT/i gunships, Amidala, Binks, and Rodian Senator Onaconda Farr had already placed Gunray under arrest. Gree and other clones took the Viceroy upon order from Amidala into custody. Gree and the Green Company transported Gunray aboard a Consular-class cruiser to Jedi Master Luminara Unduli's flagship, the Venator-class Star Destroyer Tranquility. On the way, Gree was offered a bribe by Gunray, which the loyal clone declined. Instead, he handcuffed the Viceroy and escorted him to his holding cell. Along Luminara Unduli and Padawan Ahsoka Tano, the Green Company, and several Senate Commandos led by Faro Argyus, Gree was tasked with escorting Gunray to Coruscant to stand trial.

     Nute Gunray tried to regain his freedom by bribing Commander Gree to no avail.  
Gree oversaw the interrogation of Gunray in his cell by the two Jedi, when the Tranquility was attacked by Separatist boarding ships and vulture droids with the goal to either rescue or kill Gunray before the Republic could obtain information from him. Having received reports of the attack from the bridge, Gree ordered his men to prepare to repel the invaders. The boarding ships lodged themselves in the ship's hangar bay and deployed B2 super battle droids, a development that was reported to Gree by Green Leader. Another clone informed Gree that there were droids heading for the detention level. Unduli ordered Gree to join her and support their positions against the super battle droids, ordering Tano to stay with Gunray. Meanwhile, Sith assassin Asajj Ventress managed to place a number of thermal detonators in the engine room of the cruiser. Gree, Unduli, and the other clones were able to fight off the battle droids, but when they arrived back at Gunray's cell, they found Ahsoka imprisoned and Gunray freed by Ventress. The Jedi and clones had gained the upper hand in numbers, but Ventress set off the thermal detonators, causing enough distraction to allow her to escape.

     Captain Faro Argyus ensured Gunray's escape despite Gree's efforts to stop them.  
Unduli followed Ventress and told Tano to stay with the clones and the Senate Commandos, leaving Tano and Gree to watch over Gunray again. Tano wanted to help Unduli because she believed the Mirialan was not strong enough to fight Ventress alone, and despite Gree's advice to stay, Argyus persuaded Tano to leave and support the Jedi Master. When Argyus received a signal over his comlink by Ventress, he turned on his fellow Senate Guards, shooting both of them and barely missing Gree, who managed to take cover just in time. Gree opened fire on Argyus but had to stop after Argyus freed Gunray and used him as a living shield. Gree disarmed Argyus with a precise shot, but the former Senate Guard charged him, landing a kick on the clone commander, knocking his helmet off and disarming him. After a short explanation of his actions, expressing his disinclination of the life of empty servitude, both of them reached for a blaster on the floor. Gree managed to knock Argyus unconscious, but was knocked down himself by Gunray, who fled with Arguys in an escape pod. Gree was later present on the bridge when Unduli and Tano reported to Anakin Skywalker and Yoda.

Second Battle of Geonosis
     The Galactic Republic returned to Geonosis, using Gree's clone troopers and other units to conquer the Separatist stronghold.  
Later in the war, Gree fought in the Second Battle of Geonosis. He, Clone Captain Rex, Anakin Skywalker, Unduli, and their troops distracted Poggle the Lesser's forces while Offee and Tano planted bombs in the droid foundry. After a large battle, the foundry was destroyed.

Battle of Kashyyyk and Order 66

"It will be done, my lord."
―CC-1004
Nineteen years before the Battle of Yavin, in the closing days of the Clone Wars, the Mid Rim planet of Kashyyyk came under attack by Separatist forces. Grand Master Yoda intended to assist in the defense of the world, as he had good relations with the native Wookiee populace, and so traveled to the planet accompanied by Gree, Unduli, and the 41st Elite Corps.

     CC-1004 was killed by Yoda while attempting to execute Order 66.  
Gree and Yoda oversaw the battle from a command post in the great tree city of Kachirho. The pair were joined by the city's ruler Tarfful, as well as the Wookiee Chewbacca. Partway into the battle, Gree received a transmission from the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, who ordered him to execute Order 66, a command that forced clones to execute their Jedi commanders. With the behavioral modification biochip in his head forcing him to obey the order, Gree and Clone Captain Jek took position behind Yoda and prepared to execute him. However, the Jedi Master sensed this betrayal, and beheaded Gree and Jek before they could fire on him.

Legacy
Many years after his death, by the early years of the Galactic Civil War, Gree's helmet was present in Grand Admiral Thrawn's office aboard the Chimaera, his flagship, as part of his art collection.

Personality and traits

"I can't disobey a direct order and leave my post, can I?""I wouldn't."
―Ahsoka Tano and Gree —  Listen (file info)
     A soldier of the Galactic Republic, Gree followed his superiors' orders without question.  
As a clone of the bounty hunter Jango Fett, Gree stood at 1.83 meters and had brown eyes with tanned skin. He dyed his originally black hair reddish-brown and cut it into two rectangular stripes. Commander Gree was a very loyal soldier, refusing Gunray's offer of a bribe. He also showed his loyalty to superiors when he advised Ahsoka Tano to not go against the command of the higher ranked Luminara Unduli and fought Captain Argyus because of his betrayal. Gree was always loyal to his Jedi commanders and never stepped out of line. However, when Darth Sidious issued Order 66 in 19 BBY, it changed the clone's viewpoint. All clone troopers had been given a control chip, which would force them to obey the command to execute the Jedi, and Gree fell victim to the control. Ultimately loyal to the Republic and not the Jedi, Gree, believing it was a worst-case scenario, attempted to execute Grand Master Yoda, but was killed by the Jedi who sensed the betrayal before it happened.

Skills and abilities
     Commander Gree's armor featured markings similar to that of Green Company.  
As a clone commander, Gree was a skilled tactician who knew how to lead and oversee a battle. He was proficient in operating a blaster rifle as well as a blaster pistol. He was also able to defeat the Senate Guard Faro Argyus in hand-to-hand combat, before he was knocked down from behind by Viceroy Nute Gunray. Gree was not talented in diplomacy, but he did have above-average intelligence, speed and strength, and outstanding fighting ability.

Equipment
     Gree in Phase II armor with a DC-15A  
Early in the Clone Wars, Gree wore standard Phase I clone armor. His armor was detailed with markings and sported the same green that belonged to Green Company. Gree wore a black bandolier, which held extra ammunition as well as the option to hold other pouches. At some point of the Clone Wars, his armor was replaced with the new Phase II clone trooper armor. Much like his Phase I counterpart, his new armor was decorated with green markings, this time incorporating jungle camouflage on the thighs and wrists, as well as black colouration on the shins and chest. He also carried a personalised set of green macrobinoculars.
Like many commanding officers, Gree utilized a variety of weapons. He carried a DC-15A blaster carbine and was also equipped with one DC-17 hand blaster (complemented by a holster on the side of his right leg), different to the two pistols some other commanding officers like Captain Rex wielded.

Behind the scenes
CC-1004 made his first canonical appearance in the 2005 film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, where he was voiced by Temuera Morrison, who voiced all of the other clone troopers in the movie. Like all of the other clones, he was portrayed as a computer-generated character. He was first identified as "Gree" in the Star Wars Legends tie-in reference book Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary. The name was canonized by its inclusion in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars episode "Cloak of Darkness." Like all clones in the series, Gree was voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.
In Legends, his designation was first mentioned as just 1004 in Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary. Combined with the knowledge from the article "Guide to the Grand Army of the Republic" from the eighty-fourth issue of the Star Wars Insider magazine, that the designation CC is used for clone commanders, his designation could be determined as CC-1004. In canon, 1004 was first mentioned in Gree's entry in the Encyclopedia on StarWars.com and his full designation CC-1004 was first mentioned in Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, a reference book from 2015. In the 2017 reference book, Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z, Gree was misidentified as Commander Rigs on page 73. Gree had his first Legends appearance without his helmet in the Star Wars: 30th Anniversary Collection line of toys. In canon, he had his first helmetless appearance in the TV episode "Cloak of Darkness."
In the illustrated screenplay of Revenge of the Sith, though Gree's death scene remained largely the same as in the final cut, Gree and his fellow trooper were able to fire their blasters before being killed by Yoda, who had already swiftly jumped over them before they could reveal their weapons.
