Greef Karga


Biographical information

Homeworld
Nevarro


Born
c. 62 BBY, Nevarro



Descriptive information

Species
Human


Gender
Male


Height
1.88 meters


Hair color
Black, later graying


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Dark



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Bounty Hunters' GuildNevarro Hunters


[Source]



"I don't believe my eyes. The voice sounds like Greef Karga, Guild Master of the Nevarro Hunters, but all I see before me is a pampered nobleman dressed for the pomp of his wedding feast.""Believe your ears then, and don't mistake my hospitality for weakness."
―Gorian Shard and Greef Karga
Greef Karga was a human male and former disgraced magistrate before becoming an agent of the Bounty Hunters' Guild and Guild Master of the Nevarro Hunters following the collapse of the Galactic Empire. In around 9 ABY, he met with the bounty hunter named Din Djarin in a cantina to accept four bounties the hunter had captured. Djarin then refused to accept payment in Imperial credits, forcing Karga to pay him in Calamari Flan, after which he told of an unusual job from individual known as the Client associated with an Imperial remnant.
Karga was pleased when Djarin completed the job, and after congratulating him, gave him a new bounty to hunt down. Djarin however had a change of heart and decided to rescue the bounty, a small child named Grogu, whom he had originally delivered to the Client. Karga then led a group of other Guild members in confronting Djarin and trying to reclaim the Child, but ultimately the hunters were overwhelmed when Djarin's Tribe joined the battle. Karga fled and confronted Djarin alone in Djarin's gunship, the Razor Crest, but the bounty hunter outwitted Karga and shot him off the ship and escaped.
The angered Client took over Karga's city in retaliation for losing his prize. This prompted Karga to seek Djarin's aid in liberating the planet despite his betrayal of the Guild. After planning to betray him, Karga had a change of heart and ended up fighting with Djarin. They planned to kill the Client, but the plan went awry and the Client was killed by Moff Gideon. After being surrounded by Gideon and his Imperial remnant, Karga escaped to the lava flats where he was once again attacked by Gideon. However, Gideon was defeated by Djarin and Karga offered him a place in the Guild again. He refused but Djarin's other companion, Cara Dune, accepted the offer to become his personal enforcer, with Karga again taking on the role of magistrate.
Karga later infiltrated an Imperial base on the planet. After all the Imperials left the planet, Nevarro became an independent trade anchor of the Hydian Way, and Karga became the High Magistrate of Nevarro.

Biography
Dealing jobs

"There is one job.""Let's see the puck.""No puck. Face to face. Direct commission. Deep pocket.""Underworld?""All I know is no chain code. Do you want the chit or not?"
―Karga gives the Mandalorian a new bounty —  Listen (file info)
     Greef Karga guided the Bounty Hunters' Guild on Nevarro.  
Greef Karga was a human male who, at one time, worked as a magistrate, only to be disgraced and lose the position. Shortly after the collapse of the Galactic Empire, Karga operated as an agent of the Bounty Hunters' Guild, and the Guild Master of the Nevarro Hunters. Karga's accounting was handled by "the Mythrol" since his days as a pollywog, though he eventually decided to steal some of Karga's money and run. The Mythrol thus became indebted to Karga. One of the bounty hunters Karga worked with was the Mandalorian Din Djarin, and in around 9 ABY, the hunter returned to Karga on Nevarro, having successfully captured four bounties, including the Mythrol. Djarin met with Karga in a cantina to hand over the four tracking fobs, and once he had confirmation that the hunter had the bounties, Karga signaled to one of his men to go and collect the bounties—who had been encased in carbonite—from Djarin's starship, the Razor Crest.
Karga then attempted to pay the bounty hunter in Imperial credits, but Djarin refused the currency due to the collapse of the regime. When Karga protested, Djarin rose to leave, prompting Karga to give in and offer to pay in Calamari Flan, although admitting he could only pay half what was owed in that form. Djarin accepted and asked what further jobs were available, attempting to claim all of those that Karga offered, but Karga refused to hand them all over, stating that he had other hunters who also needed work. He explained to Djarin that the lack of work was due to those offering bounties not wanting to pay Guild rates.

     Greef Karga negotiates with Djarin on his next job at the cantina on Nevarro.  
When Djarin was unimpressed with the fact that the highest job Karga had to offer only paid five thousand credits, Karga offered up a contract from a man known as the Client. The job did not have a holopuck, and required the hunter to meet with the Client face-to-face. Karga did not know anything more about the work, but after Djarin accepted it, Karga contacted the Client to let him know the bounty hunter was on the way.

A successful job

"They're all weighing the beskar in their minds, but not me. No. I for one, I celebrate your success, because it is my success as well. Hell, even I'm rich."
―Karga congratulates the Mandalorian
Djarin successfully completed the job and retrieved a Force-sensitive Child from the planet Arvala-7. As he returned with the bounty, Karga contacted Djarin via hologram and told him to deliver Grogu directly to the Client. For his part in the job, Karga was paid at least three bars of beskar. A man later approached the Guild agent and attempted to justify the failure of his bounty with him, but Karga dismissed him when the bounty hunter demanded for more pucks. When Djarin met with him in the cantina again, Karga praised him for his success and mocked the other hunters who had failed to collect the bounty. He suggested the hunter relax to celebrate and offered to take him to the Twi'lek healing baths, but Djarin refused and demanded he be provided with another job.
Karga offered him his pick of the best bounties and Djarin selected a Mon Calamari nobleman's son who had skipped bail and last been sighted on Karnac. Before he left, Djarin asked about the Client's plans for Grogu, but Karga stated he did not know, reminding him that to have asked would have been against Guild protocol.

Dealing with a traitor

"Welcome back, Mando. Now put the package down.""Step aside. I'm going to my ship.""You put the bounty down and perhaps I'll let you pass.""The kid's coming with me.""If you truly care about the kid, then you'll put it on the speeder and we'll discuss terms.""How do I know I can trust you?""Because I'm your only hope."
―Karga confronts Djarin —  Listen (file info)
Djarin left, but soon had a change of heart and attacked the Imperials and rescued Grogu. With Grogu out of Imperial hands, the bounty fobs for the infant reactivated, including the one held by Karga. Realizing Djarin had broken the code, Karga quickly assembled the Guild's forces. He led the hunters with him to ambush Djarin, surrounding him in the middle of the city as he attempted to reach his ship with Grogu. Karga demanded that Djarin hand over the bounty, ordering him to place the infant in a speeder so that they could discuss terms. Djarin appeared to surrender and comply, but upon reaching the speeder he took cover and opened fire.

     Karga and the Guild surrounded Djarin  
Karga and the other hunters quickly took cover as Djarin began to slowly make his escape in the speeder. As the hunters and Djarin exchanged fire, Karga carefully took aim and shot the astromech droid piloting the speeder carrying Djarin and Grogu, causing the vehicle to crash. The other hunters began to close in, but Djarin opened fire with his Amban phase-pulse blaster, disintegrating three of his attackers and causing the rest to retreat to cover. Djarin demanded he be allowed to pass, but Karga refused and he and the other renewed their attack. Djarin briefly held off the Guild with his flamethrower, but once it ran out of fuel, they closed in again. However, before they could reach Djarin, the hunters came under attack from the rest of Djarin's tribe, who flew in with jetpacks and rained missiles down upon the Guild members.
Karga opened fire upon Djarin, but quickly fled as the other bounty hunters were overwhelmed. Karga headed to the Razor Crest, where he awaited Djarin's arrival by hiding in the upper deck. Once Djarin entered the hold, Karga confronted him at blaster point, but the bounty hunter managed to activate his carbonite freezing apparatus with his whipcord launcher, creating a cloud of gas that hid him from view. Karga fired blindly but missed, allowing Djarin to shoot him once in the chest and knock him back out of the ship. Despite taking fire from point blank range, the beskar plate in Karga's jacket absorbed the hit and protected him from injury. Djarin managed to escape with Grogu, leaving Karga lying flat on his back on the dirt, who commented on how the beskar saved his life.

Imperial occupation

"If you would consider one last commission, I will very much make it worth your while."
―Karga, to Djarin —  Listen (file info)
After Djarin's escape with their asset, the Client put the city under Imperial occupation, disrupting the work of the Guild. Eventually, Karga contacted Djarin to return to Nevarro to help save the city from the Empire. However, Karga had his own goals: to liberate the city, as well as exacting his revenge on Djarin and return Grogu to the Empire. Djarin eventually returned to Nevarro with the former shock trooper Cara Dune, reprogrammed assassin droid IG-11, the Ugnaught Kuiil and his three blurrgs, and Grogu. Karga met them with two bounty hunters and the company began traveling to the settlement. Karga's plan was to double-cross Djarin before they entered the city. While they were camping during the night, the company was attacked by native reptavians who gravely injured Karga. The group looked on at the suffering Karga unsure of how to treat his serious injury, but to their surprise, Grogu approached the wounded man and healed him using the Force. Karga and the others were mystified by the occurrence.

     Karga killed his bounty hunters to save Djarin and his escort.  
The next day, as the group continued moving, Karga and the two bounty hunters moved ahead to discuss the plan to kill Djarin. The two hunters dropped behind the group with Karga walking between Djarin and Dune. When the group approached a ridge overlooking the city, Karga rethought his plan to betray Djarin. Thinking quickly, he shot the two bounty hunters and revealed that he had planned to lure Djarin back to Nevarro to kill him, returning Grogu to the Empire. He explained that after being healed by Grogu, he changed his mind. As Djarin and Dune both kept their blasters trained on him, Karga told them that if they shot him, Grogu would never be safe. Despite Dune's willingness to kill Karga, Djarin lowered his weapon and agreed with Karga's assessment. They agreed they both needed to kill the Client, for Grogu's protection, as well as the safety of the settlement. Karga proposed he bring Djarin in, pretending to have captured him, so Djarin could kill the Client. Then, Djarin began to formulate his plan, sending Kuiil and Grogu back to the Razor Crest and having Karga return to the Imperials with Dune, posing as a bounty hunter who captured Djarin. Bringing along the pram carrying Grogu, the Imperials would not know Grogu was safe in the ship.
They entered the settlement using Karga's chain code to pass the guards. Entering the now empty cantina, Karga and Djarin sat with the Client while four stormtroopers waited nearby. The plan began to go south when the Client asked Karga to see the baby. Karga quickly lied that it was asleep, but the Client insisted they would be quiet. Fortunately for them, the Client was then contacted by his superior, Moff Gideon, and left their table. Karga freed Djarin, who had been in cuffs, and slipped him his blaster. When the Client told Gideon that he had Grogu, Gideon told him to check again. Then, death troopers opened fire, and Karga, Djarin, and Dune took cover as the Client was killed, as well as the stormtroopers with him. Meanwhile, Gideon surrounded the compound with stormtroopers. Pinned down, Gideon gave an ultimatum to the group, telling them to either surrender or face death by an E-Web heavy repeating blaster cannon.

     Karga pretending to have captured Djarin  
IG-11 saved the group, creating confusion in the ranks of stormtroopers, but Djarin was injured in the fighting when the E-WEB's power supply exploded so the group had to once again retreat into the compound. IG-11 cut a hole for the group to escape. As IG-11 tended to Djarin, Karga and Dune went on ahead into the sewers. The group eventually emerged in the area that once housed the Mandalorian covert. Djarin stumbled across a group of helmets showing the Empire's defeat of the group. After communicating with the Armorer, Djarin led the way as the group escaped the sewers to a lava river. Karga and the others then boarded a boat and began to escape down the tunnel, but they soon realized a group of stormtroopers were waiting for them. After IG-11 sacrificed himself for them by killing the stormtroopers surrounding the exit to the lava flats of Nevarro, Gideon attacked in his Outland TIE fighter. Karga attempted to bring down the fighter with his blaster but he was unsuccessful. Djarin was able to take down the fighter in the end and Karga commented on the Imperials being purged from his world. He offered to take Djarin back into the Guild, but the Mandalorian declined, as the bounty hunter was now focused on returning Grogu to his own kind. He also made an offer of Guild membership to Dune, who accepted.

Improving Nevarro
     Karga briefs Djarin on the mission  
Though he had told Djarin he was willing to allow the bounty hunter's guild control of Nevarro once again, Karga, now joined by Dune, became High Magistrate and took control of operations to make the planet into one of respectable business. With Dune as his marshal, they successfully turned the way of life in the city around, even turning the cantina into a school. Karga was also aided by the very Mythrol that Djarin had captured sometime prior, allowing the Mythrol to begin working off his three hundred and fifty years worth of debt in his office. After Karga and his allies had discovered a remaining Imperial base on planet, which prevented Nevarro from becoming a trade anchor for its entire sector, Djarin and Grogu returned to Nevarro for repairs on the Razor Crest. Leaving Grogu at the school, Djarin joined Karga, Dune, and the Mythrol in infltrating the base, which they successfully destroyed by shutting down its lava coolant system.
Before the base's detonation, Karga and his team discovered the base was housing genetic research and, thanks to a three day old transmission from Doctor Penn Pershing, that Gideon was still alive. After learning this, Djarin, using his jetpack, left the team early to get Grogu from the city, while Karga and the others escaped aboard an Imperial Trexler 906 Armored Marauder. Though they were pursued by scout troopers on 74-Z speeder bikes and then a force of Outland TIE fighters, Karga and Dune were able to take out most of their pursers. The remaining TIEs were taken out by Djarin, who had retrieved Grogu and the Crest. Karga and Djarin then parted ways once again, with the Mandalorian and magistrate agreeing his work qualified as payment for the repairs. Unknown to Karga, one of the mechanics he had tasked with working on the Crest, a Mimbanese worker, was an agent for Gideon and had placed a tracking device on the ship.

Personality and traits

"Nevarro is a very fine planet. And now that the scum and villainy have been washed away, it's very respectable again.""As a bounty hunter hive?""Some of my favorite people are bounty hunters."
―Karga and Din Djarin
     Karga partnered with Cara Dune and Din Djarin.  
Karga described Djarin to the Client as the best bounty hunter within the parsec, but also expensive. He attempted to convince Djarin that he could still spend Imperial credits when the hunter refused to accept them and attempted to claim it was the only payment he had available, but quickly gave up and offered Calamari Flan when the bounty hunter threatened to leave with the pucks. He could speak in Huttese, as well as Galactic Basic Standard. Karga had dark skin, black hair, and brown eyes.
After Djarin went back on his deal with the Empire, Karga attempted to sooth relations before bringing the Guild's forces to recapture Grogu. Despite his fondness for Djarin, he would not accept him breaking the code of the Guild by going back on a deal. When Djarin almost killed Karga, who was saved by an amount of beskar in his pocket, Karga would eventually plot his retribution.

     Karga offered Djarin back a place in the Guild.  
Karga invited Djarin back, plotting to double-cross him with a group of allies. However, despite initially being willing to betray Djarin, he later turned on his escort, as he found himself unable to go through with the plan after Grogu saved his life. Thus, he was willing to kill his own hunters and reveal his plan to Djarin. With Djarin's forgiveness, Karga sided with the Mandalorian and his allies. Like Djarin and Cara Dune, he was bereft of knowledge pertaining to the Force and those who wielded it. Karga was amazed after he was Force healed by Grogu and later encouraged Grogu to "do the magic hand thing" when the group found themselves under attack trying to escape the city. In the aftermath of their escape from Moff Gideon, Karga showed that he had a soft spot for Djarin and offered him back a place in the Guild. Even though his offer was declined, Karga bid Djarin farewell with no hard feelings.

Equipment

"I can do Calamari Flan… but I can only pay half."
―Karga struggles to pay the Mandalorian without using Imperial credits
     Karga uses his blasters.  
Greef Karga had access to enough Imperial credits to pay Djarin's bounty fees, but could only afford to pay half of the fees using the Calamari Flan he had available. He was paid at least two bars of beskar for Djarin's successful capture of the Child and used a blaster pistol in battle, sometimes two. He wore a brown jacket over a lighter brown shirt with a bandolier and brown gloves.

Behind the scenes
Greef Karga first appeared in the first episode of the 2019 Disney+ television series The Mandalorian, which aired on November 12, 2019. He was portrayed by the late Carl Weathers, and Gene Freeman served as Karga's stunt double. Aubrey Bridgewater served as a stand-in in "Chapter 8: Redemption." In "Chapter 12: The Siege," which was directed by Weathers, Dominique Price served as a photo double. He was originally intended to be a Weequay, but Jon Favreau and the crew decided not to hide Karga's performance behind a mask.
On February 2, 2024, it was reported that Carl Weathers has passed away. It is unclear how Greef Karga's fate will be handled in the production for either the upcoming The Mandalorian Season 4 or upcoming film depending on where LucasFilm is in development for these projects.
