Hoth


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim TerritoriesGalactic FrontierWestern Reaches


Sector
Anoat sector


System
Hoth system


Suns
1: Hoth


Orbital position
6


Moons
3


Grid square
K-18


Trade routes
Ison Trade Corridor (one hyperjump away)Corellian Trade Spine (one hyperjump away)


Distance from Core
50,250 light years


Rotation period
23 standard hours


Orbital period
549 local days (526 standard days)



Physical information

Class
Terrestrial


Diameter
7,200 kilometers (4,474 miles)


Atmosphere
Breathable, clean


Climate
Frigid


Terrain
Frozen ice plains, glaciers, oceans mountains


Surface water
33% (oceans)


Points of interest
Clabburn RangeEcho BaseEcho Station 3-T-8Icefall PlainsMoorsh MoraineOutpost BetaPerimeter Outpost DeltaShyloah's CrestWampa Mountain


Fauna
Dragon SlugFork-nosed ice wormHoth spiderIce scrabblerRaybooSapphire ice wormTauntaunWampa


Other lifeforms
Ice fungus



Societal information

Population
Fewer than 10


Demonym
Hothian


Affiliation
Alliance to Restore the Republic


[Source]



"There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser!"
―Han Solo —  Listen (file info)
Hoth was a remote, icy planet that was the sixth planet in the star system of the same name, located in the Anoat sector of the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories. It was the homeworld to the primitive wampa species.
It notably hosted Echo Base during the Galactic Civil War, the temporary headquarters of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, until the Galactic Empire located them, initiating a major confrontation known as the Battle of Hoth. In the months following, scavengers established temporary base camps on the planet to scrap the AT-ATs destroyed.
In the months after the Battle of Endor, rumors that the New Republic intended to repurpose Hoth into a prison for those who remained loyal to the Empire, however the credibility of the rumors were dismissed as Chancellor Mon Mothma had been dedicated to a pretext of justice over punishment. Meanwhile the war returned to Hoth, where it became the site of another battle during the Iron Blockade.

Description

"Anyone who looks at Hoth from above would be forgiven for thinking it a mostly dead ball of ice"
―Kell Tolkani's notes
     Imperial AT-ATs traverse the frozen landscape on Hoth.  
From space, the planet of Hoth looked like a pale blue orb due to its dense snow and ice covering. Five planets existed between Hoth and its sun, while an asteroid belt surrounded the planet with meteors occasionally striking the surface. Most of its surface was covered with glaciers and frozen ice plains. Another third of the planet was covered by oceans. The temperature, although always frigid, was known to drop to -60°C come nightfall. Although devoid of intelligent life, Hoth was home to fifteen subspecies of tauntauns, which were commonly used by Rebels as a means of transport, and which Han Solo cut open to use as shelter to keep Luke Skywalker and himself warm during a snowstorm. It was also home to a species of towering predators known as wampas. During his stay on Hoth, Skywalker was captured by a wampa and was hung upside down in the wampa's cave, waiting to be eaten. Using the power of the Force, Skywalker managed to get his hands on his lightsaber and cut himself down from the roof and sever the wampa's right arm. The planet also had a number of "crystalline geysers."

History
The Rebel Alliance

"Jan Dodonna was always planning for the future…he had preliminary scans for possible new rebel bases.""Gimme a look at that…Atanu, Jabone IV, Lonania Prime, Hoth, Mupin XII? Mupin XII? Really? Did he make that one up? What are these places?"
―Leia Organa and Han Solo
By the time of the Galactic Civil War between the Galactic Empire and the Alliance to Restore the Republic, Hoth was undergoing an ice age. Various smuggling rings tried to make use of Hoth as a base, yet their efforts always failed due to the planet's extreme conditions. Sometime following the Battle of Yavin, Saponza's Gang, itself a rebel cell, established a base on Hoth. Hoth was first surveyed for use as a rebel base by Corporal Purpruff. Jan Dodonna, a general in the Alliance to Restore the Republic, listed Hoth among his preliminary scans for possible Alliance bases. With Hoth a world so obscure it was not on most star maps despite being extremely close to the Corellian Trade Spine, it looked to be a perfect spot for a rebel base. Indeed, its surface was a winter wasteland, Hoth sat on a lesser used hyperlane, and the asteroid field around Hoth provided an extra degree of protection. That field hampered travel through the Hoth system, and any asteroid crash into the surface would create enough of a thermal signature that it hid signs of intelligent life.
In 1 ABY, with more resources at their command than the various smuggling rings that had failed to turn Hoth into a headquarters, Hoth was chosen by the rebels as the location for their base of operations. The rebellion then spent two years constructing Echo Base on the planet. With the Alliance's resources at their disposal, rebel engineers worked on expanding ice caverns into a base over those two years. Around 2 ABY, after Dodonna was killed in the Assault on the Mako-Ta Space Docks, Mon Mothma gave his list of possible bases to Leia Organa after the mission to Shu-Torun, requesting that her team scout the locations. Han Solo expressed surprise at how obscure the locations were. However, Luke Skywalker responded to him by saying that one of the locations was the Rebellion's new home.

Battle of Hoth and aftermath

"Com-Scan has detected an energy field protecting an area of the sixth planet of the Hoth system. The field is strong enough to deflect any bombardment."
―General Maximilian Veers
     AT-ATs engage the rebel defense of Hoth.  
Hoth was the arena of a battle between the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance, which had installed its temporary headquarters, Echo Base, on the ice planet. However, thanks to one of the thousands of probe droids they had dispatched throughout the galaxy, the Imperials had discovered the Alliance base within a month of the Rebels' habitation on the planet. Although Echo Base was evacuated in the eleventh hour, the Battle of Hoth resulted in a clear defeat for the Alliance after the elite Imperial Blizzard Force overran it.
In the months following the Battle of Hoth, scavengers established temporary base camps on the planet to scrap the AT-ATs destroyed by the Rebel Alliance during the Empire's attack. Following the Battle of Endor, Hoth became the site of another battle, occurring during the Iron Blockade imposed upon the Anoat sector.
In 5 ABY, Troithe Acting Governor Fara Yadeez heard rumors that the New Republic intended to repurpose Hoth into a prison for those who remained loyal to the Empire. Major Soran Keize, however, dismissed the credibility of the rumor as Republic Chancellor Mon Mothma had been dedicated to a pretext of justice over punishment, and that repurposing Hoth, where the Rebellion had been badly defeated by the Empire, had too much poetry.

Behind the scenes
     Concept art of Hoth by Ralph McQuarrie.  
Hoth first appeared in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, the second installment of the Star Wars original trilogy. The real-world filming location for Hoth was Finse, Norway.
