Imperial Soldier


General information

Organization type
Soldier


Founder(s)
Odile Vaiken


Sub-group(s)
Heavy Imperial trooperImperial shocktrooper


Headquarters
Dromund Kaas



Historical information

Date founded
4980 BBY



Other information

Affiliation
Sith EmpireImperial ArmyNew Empire


[Source]



"YOU ARE THE SERVANTS OF THE EMPEROR AND OF THE EMPIRE! YOU ARE THE ENGINE OF CONFLICT. YOU ARE TRANSFORMING THE GALAXY!"
―Darth Malgus to his Imperial soldiers
Imperial soldiers, also called Sith troopers or Imperial troopers, were the infantry units of the reconstituted Sith Empire's army. These Imperial soldiers served as the ground invasion force for the Imperial Military's campaigns of conquest, and worked to defend the Empire's holdings during the Great Galactic War and Cold War. Imperial soldiers were conscripted members of the Enlisted class—a social caste within the Empire destined to work in the military under the orders of their Sith overlords. Soldiers often worked alongside Imperial guardsmen, bounty hunters, Intelligence Ministry agents, Sith Warriors and Inquisitors on the field of battle. One variation of the standard trooper, the heavy Imperial trooper, worked in a similar, but more specialized role.
The system of conscription and the training regimen that soldiers completed were both the creations of Odile Vaiken—the father of the Imperial Army and naval armada, as well as the first Grand Moff of the Empire. As the Empire grew, Imperial soldiers worked to secure more territory and prepare for the coming war with the Galactic Republic. The troops succeeded in seizing the Aparo sector, as well as the rest of the Tingel Arm early in the war, and quickly followed up those victories by assisting in wins on Korriban and Begeren. Imperial soldiers later participated in the failed attacks on Alderaan and Rhen Var, as well as the final battle of the war, the Sacking of Coruscant. All of the Imperial Soldiers were Human, due to the Sith Empire's views on Humanocentrism, this however changed some of the events of Makeb many years after, during the Cold War, with the Empire now allowing aliens within their ranks.

