
This article is about the second edition of the book. You may be looking for the first edition.







Imperial Sourcebook

Attribution information

Author(s)
Greg Gorden


Editor(s)
Bill Smith



Publication information

Publisher
West End Games


Publication date
July 1994


Type
Hardcover


ISBN
0874312108


[Source]


The Imperial Sourcebook, by Greg Gorden, was a West End Games supplement for their version of the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. It discussed the organization of the Galactic Empire in the aftermath of the Battle of Yavin. This, the second edition, was released in June 1994, following the release of the sourcebook's first edition in October 1989. It was designed to be an in-universe report on the Empire compiled for Mon Mothma by Arhul Hextrophon.
The Imperial Sourcebook "is set in that turbulent time that begins with the destruction of the first Death Star" and "looks at the might of the Empire after Star Wars IV: A New Hope."

Opening crawl





It is a dark time for the Rebellion. Although the original Death Star has been destroyed, Imperial forces have instituted a reign of terror throughout the galaxy.

The Galactic Empire has many weapons in its arsenal and every one of them has been turned upon the Rebels: tyranny, oppression, vast fleets, overwhelming armies and fear, the prime motivator in the New Order.

The upstart Rebel Alliance has dared win a significant battle against the Empire at Yavin, but the war has only begun. Outnumbered and outgunned, the Rebellion nevertheless burns across a thousand-thousand worlds, flaming into a fire of hope.

But the Emperor has ordered this fire extinguished, setting the massive war machine he has constructed into motion ...




Contents
Introduction
Prologue
Chapter One: A Primer on Imperial Power
By His Own Hand
Imperial Communique #001044.92v
Chapter Two: COMPNOR
Chapter Three: Imperial Intelligence
How to Read an Imperial Intelligence Scandoc
Chapter Four: The Military
Imperial Spin
Admiral Jerjerrod's Testimony
Chapter Five: Capital Ships
Chapter Six: Custom Ordnance
Chapter Seven: Land Vehicles
Chapter Eight: Sector Group Organization
Picutorion Viewed From the Top
A Salvager's Run
The Full Might of the Empire
Chapter Nine: Combat Artillery
Chapter Ten: Infantry Support Weapons
Chapter Eleven: Special Military Forces
Death of a Rebel Base
The Assault on Protazk
Chapter Twelve: Recruitment, Training, and Indoctrination
Development
The second edition of Imperial Sourcebook was first published in June 1994. A second printing was released in January 1995.



 This article is a stub about a book. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
