    









This Star Wars Legends article contains information that is affected by the Star Wars: The Clone Wars project.
A definitive Legends Clone Wars timeline was never established by Lucasfilm. The exact chronology of the events described in this article is unknown.






This article is about the Naboo star skiff. You may be looking for the Naboo royal starship or the J-type diplomatic barge.







J-type star skiff


Production information

Manufacturer
Theed Palace Space Vessel Engineering Corps/Nubia Star Drives, Incorporated


Line
J-type star skiff


Model
Modified J-type star skiff


Type
Star yacht



Technical specifications

Length
29.2 meters


Width
49.3 meters


Maximum atmospheric speed
1050 km/h


Engine unit(s)
Sossen-7 sublight engines (2)


Hyperdrive rating
Class 0.5


Hyperdrive system
Modified hyperdrive system


Shielding
Equipped


Hull
Reinforced hull with chromium plating


Sensor systems
Equipped


Targeting systems
Equipped


Navigation system
Equipped


Avionics
Equipped


Countermeasures
Sensor jamming system


Armament
Top-mounted laser cannons (2)


Crew
Pilot (1)Navigator (1)Gunner (1)


Passengers
3



Usage

Role(s)
TransportPersonal starship


Affiliation
Royal House of NabooPadmé AmidalaGalactic Republic


[Source]


The J-type star skiff, also known as the Naboo star skiff, was a yacht starship created by the Theed Palace Space Vessel Engineering Corps for the Royal House of Naboo. It was referred to as a star skiff due to its primary purpose as a passenger transport, a role often shared by the common repulsorlift surface vehicles known as skiffs.

Characteristics
     Padmé Amidala's star skiff approaches Cato Neimoidia.  
The J-type star skiff symbolized the changes sweeping through the galaxy in the final days of the Galactic Republic.
Though the star skiff retained the sleek, teardrop-shaped main hull and wide, sweeping wings of previous royal cruisers, a duller finish, exposed access grills and discolored Sossen-7 sublight engines indicated that the star skiff was a product of turbulent times. Perhaps most shocking of all for a Naboo royal vessel was the inclusion of a pair of top-mounted laser cannons. The J-type star skiff was 29 meters in length, and 49.3 meters wing to wing. Inside, It had a remarkably fast 0.5 hyperdrive and was spacious despite its small size. The Naboo star skiff was equipped with lockers and a medical suite, in addition to the standard cabins and compartments. It could also hold up to 6 passengers.
The star skiff was not designed for direct confrontation however, but its speed and agility allowed for quick escapes so the ship could recover from any damage it might sustain. Although it was far too expensive to be produced en masse, the J-type functioned as a refueling partner for the N-1 starfighter when needed.

History
     Padmé Amidala's star skiff.  
Though designed for Queen Apailana, the current monarch continued Naboo's tradition of gratitude towards the services of former Queen Amidala by allowing her to use the star skiff.
As a rule, only the planet's monarch could own a vessel sheathed in chromium, but Padmé's popularity and loyalty to Naboo superseded such tradition. Though Padmé was more than capable of piloting the star skiff, she often left the duty of flying the ship to Captain Gregar Typho or C-3PO. J-type star skiffs were also used by contemporary prominent individuals in the Republic.
Padmé Amidala used this vessel to negotiate with Ziro Desilijic Tiure over siding with the Republic; however Ziro was not interested in what she was saying. She also flew this ship to Cato Neimoidia with Rush Clovis acting as a spy for the Jedi Council to see if he was bargaining with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. In 19 BBY she used this ship to go to Mustafar during her attempt to find her husband, Anakin Skywalker, just after the conclusion of the Clone Wars. Unbeknownst to her, Obi-Wan Kenobi had stowed aboard the ship, and this led to a fateful duel.

     Padmé Amidala's star skiff on Coruscant.  
Obi-Wan Kenobi also flew Padmé Amidala in the yacht to the medical facility at Polis Massa Base, after Anakin had employed a Force choke upon her.
After the death of Amidala the star skiff was put to rest by the Naboo as it was a painful reminder of what had happened to their former Queen. Other Senators, however, continued to purchase these ships to improve their standing.

Behind the scenes
The Naboo star skiff resembles the RQ-3 Dark Star unmanned aerial vehicle and the Northrop YB-49 bomber plane.
Concept Design Supervisor Ryan Church sketched the skiff as having add-on and modified features, to suggest that it had been "supercharged" for combat.
During principal photography, very little of the ship was constructed -- only its boarding ramp was built full scale. The interior cockpit environment was digitally stitched together from background plates of the Naboo yacht interior from Episode II, with new footage of characters seated in the yacht's chairs against greenscreen. During pickup photography, new scenes set in the deeper interior of the ship necessitated the construction of a fully enclosed set that featured the ship's locker bay and medical suite.
