Jamillia


Biographical information

Homeworld
Naboo



Descriptive information

Species
Human (Naboo)


Gender
Female


Height
1.57 meters


Hair color
Brown


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Tan



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Royal House of NabooGalactic Republic


[Source]



"We must keep our faith in the Republic. The day we stop believing democracy can work is the day we lose it."
―Queen Jamillia
Jamillia was a human female who served as the Queen of Naboo during the final years of the Galactic Republic. She ran for the office of queen as Padmé Amidala's term ended, but lost to Réillata. Jamillia later served as queen at the outbreak of the Clone Wars.

Biography
A human female, Jamillia hailed from the planet Naboo. When Queen Padmé Amidala, elected sovereign of Naboo, finished her two two-year terms, her people tried to amend their constitution so she could remain in office. However, Amidala declined the honor, and Jamillia ran for the position of Queen, but lost to Réillata. Sometime later Jamillia ran again and was elected queen.

     Jamillia in the throne room  
In 22 BBY, Amidala was the victim of an attempted assassination by the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a coalition of star systems that wished to secede from the Republic. With Amidala's life threatened, both the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic and the High Council of the Jedi Order sent her to a secure retreat on Naboo. At the beginning of Amidala's sojourn, Jamillia met her predecessor in the Royal Palace, and the two discussed the probability of an imminent full-scale conflict between the Republic and the Separatists. Not long afterwards, those concerns came true as the Clone Wars broke out between the two factions.
Shortly after the outbreak of the war, Jamilla approached Amidala at Varykino Villa who was there recovering from the wounds she suffered at the Battle of Geonosis asking her and her Jedi protector Anakin Skywalker to rescue five members of the Torada Collective who were on the Sepratist occupied planet Nooroyo when the war broke out. When the mission was completed however only Antraya, Jamilla's sister, choose to return home to Naboo. Jamilla reunited with her sister in the palace shortly after.
After a four-year reign, Jamillia was succeeded by Queen Neeyutnee.

Personality and traits
Queen Jamillia was relatively small, measuring 1.57 meters. She had a round face with full lips, a narrow chin and pronounced cheeks. Both her hair and eye color were dark brown. She was an ardent defender of democracy, and she also genuinely cared for the safety of her senator, Padmé Amidala.

Equipment
Jamillia wore a black robe and a golden headdress.

Behind the scenes
Jamillia was portrayed by Indian actress Ayesha Dharker in the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. In some early scripts of Episode II, the character was identified as "Jamilla." Dharker spent a month in Australia, a week and a half in Lake Como and then a few days in Caserta, Italy for only half a day of shooting.
