Jango Fett


Biographical information

Homeworld
Concord Dawn


Born
66 BBY


Died
22 BBY, Geonosis



Descriptive information

Species
Human


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.83 meters


Mass
79 kilograms


Hair color
Black


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Tan



Family information

Family
Fetts


Children
Boba Fett (through cloning)



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
MandaloriansBounty Hunters' GuildGalactic Republic (as a clone template)Kaminoan government (as paid clone template)Confederacy of Independent Systems (as a mercenary)


Masters
A mentor


Apprentices
Cad BaneBoba Fett


[Source]



"I'm just a simple man trying to make my way in the universe."
―Jango Fett
Jango Fett was a famed Mandalorian human male bounty hunter and the clone template of the Grand Army of the Republic. Known as the best bounty hunter in the galaxy during the final years of the Galactic Republic, Fett was proficient in marksmanship as well as unarmed combat. The Mandalorian armor that he wore featured various weapons and gadgets, including a flamethrower, dual WESTAR-34 blaster pistols, and a jetpack. His personal starship was the Firespray-31-class patrol and attack craft Slave I.
Hailing from the planet Concord Dawn, Fett was a foundling of the Mandalorians trained by a mentor, and, as a Mandalorian warrior, fought in the Mandalorian Civil Wars before becoming a bounty hunter. As a bounty hunter, Fett worked with and became acquainted with several fellow hunters and individuals in the criminal underworld including the Duros Cad Bane, whom Fett once mentored, Aurra Sing, Zam Wesell, and the infamous pirate Hondo Ohnaka. In time, Fett became widely regarded as the galaxy's best bounty hunter, with a notoriety matched by few other bounty hunters.
Shortly after the Invasion of Naboo, the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus hired Fett to serve as the genetic foundation of an army secretly bred on the Wild Space world of Kamino. His DNA spawned millions of clone troopers who shared his face, voice, and were trained to become soldiers. As part of his payment, Fett was given an unaltered clone whom he raised as his son, Boba Fett. In the last days of the Separatist Crisis, Fett was involved in the failed plot to assassinate Senator Padmé Amidala on Coruscant. The Jedi Order investigated the incident, forcing Fett to leave the Kaminoan homeworld after he was confronted by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Kenobi tracked Fett to Geonosis where he discovered the bounty hunter's connection with Count Dooku and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Fett fought against the Jedi assault team during the First Battle of Geonosis, and was beheaded by Jedi Master Mace Windu in 22 BBY. His legacy survived not only through the millions of clone troopers that formed the backbone of the Republic Military, but also Boba, who became a bounty hunter like his father before him. By the era of the Galactic Empire, Boba possessed the same set of Mandalorian armor worn by Jango, although its appearance had been altered significantly.

Biography
Early life

"Your father was a foundling.""Yes. He even fought in the Mandalorian Civil Wars."
―Din Djarin, to Boba Fett after seeing Boba's chain code
     A suit of Mandalorian armor was given to Jango Fett, a foundling who later became a bounty hunter.  
Jango Fett was born in 66 BBY and was from the Mandalorian colony planet Concord Dawn, a world within the Mandalore sector of the Outer Rim Territories. Although he told others he came from this Mandalorian world, his exact history remained unknown, much to Fett's enjoyment. As a boy, Fett was a prodigy in unarmed combat. Following the murder of his parents, Fett was found on Concord Dawn by and taken into ranks of the Mandalorians as a foundling. The legendary warriors raised him to become a Mandalorian warrior. He was taught by a mentor.
Fett participated in the Mandalorian Civil Wars, and it was during the wars that he was first given his own set of distinctive Mandalorian armor. Eventually, however, his time with the Mandalorians led him to pursue a career as a bounty hunter. Although he would retain his Mandalorian armor, Prime Minister Almec of the New Mandalorians disavowed any connection to Fett, claiming that he was simply a bounty hunter who had somehow stolen an artifact from Mandalore's troubled past.

Rise of Jango Fett

"But, Dad, can't you just take the jobs you want?""I can now. But it took a long time to get here. We aren't born with our reputations. We have to earn them."
―Jango Fett and Boba Fett
     Over the course of many years, Fett rose to become known as the greatest bounty hunter in the galaxy.  
Over many years prior to the Invasion of Naboo, Fett rose to the top of the bounty hunting trade, where he expertly used his advanced armor and twin blaster pistols to hunt down fugitives. At some point in his career Fett began to work with Zam Wesell as a frequent accomplice. Fett was also an associate of pirate captain Hondo Ohnaka and fellow bounty hunter Aurra Sing. Once being mentored by the legendary man, Cad Bane, a Duros who was a major bounty hunter by the time of the Clone Wars, came to owe Fett several favors that he never payed off.
At one point in time, Fett together with Wesell, journeyed to a terrestrial astronomical object called Snugano. While there, Fett and Wesell used a tactic, with his companion nearly dying using her abilities as a Clawdite to morph into a fur-covered beast.
At another point, Fett undertook another job to Oovo 4, a prison moon that Firespray attack craft were used to guard. During this event, Fett stole a Firespray-31 starship, naming it Slave I, going to utilize it as his personal transport, and he upgraded the craft extensively, outfitting the vessel with a number of weapons, including laser cannons, projectile launchers, and seismic charges.
Initially, Fett was not able to just take on the jobs that he wanted, and it took him many years to build his reputation until he could operate as he chose to and saw fit. During the final years of the Galactic Republic, Fett became widely regarded as the best bounty hunter in the galaxy, but his skill and notoriety eventually drew the attention of the Sith.

Job on Nar Shaddaa
     Fett fights a K'lor'slug  
On Nar Shaddaa in it's Smugglers District, Fett confronted a Lannik and his guards. As Fett confronted the Lannik, he came under attack by K'lor'slug. After subduing the K'lor'slug, Fett confronted the Lannik and demanded to know the location of the Hope of Glee Anselm. The Lannik did know the item's location, so Fett killed the K'lor'slug.

Separatist Crisis
Clone template

"I do believe that this army will be our finest creation yet. Not a single clone unit has fallen below combat parameters. You must be very proud.""What do I have to be proud of? Livestock bred as cannon fodder? Like you said, they're your creations."
―Taun We and Jango Fett
     The Sith recruited Fett to become the genetic template of a secret clone army.  
Shortly after the Invasion of Naboo of 32 BBY, Fett participated in a competition arranged by Dooku, which the hunter won. As a result, Jango ventured to the moons of Bogden, where he was recruited by the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus—the Sith identity of Count Dooku—to be the genetic template for the Grand Army of the Republic created by the cloners of the planet Kamino. Fett agreed with the bounty and, in addition to his fee of twenty million credits, also requested an unaltered clone for himself, one who was not subjected to the typical growth acceleration and behavioral modifications given to the clone troopers.
That boy would become the first clone produced from Jango's genetic material. Fett raised this clone as his son, whom he named Boba Fett, as he remained on Kamino to supervise the flash-training of the clone troopers. The only other known clone who was effectively an unaltered copy of Fett was an enhanced female clone named Omega. The Kaminoans did not question Tyranus' decision for the clone template, given that Fett was known as the best bounty hunter in the galaxy at the time.

     Fett resided on Kamino during the development of the first clone troopers.  
All of the training programs that his clones went through were designed with input from Fett. Despite providing the genetic template for and overseeing the training of the clones, Fett felt no particular pride in them and viewed them as the Kaminoans' achievement. By tampering with Fett's genetic samples, the Kaminoans ensured that his clones aged twice as fast while possessing less independence than their donor. Aside from these modifications to their genetic structure, the clones were otherwise physically identical to Fett. Jango's armor inspired that of the soldiers cloned from him. The first battalions consisted of two-hundred thousand units; in time Fett's clones numbered in the millions. Notwithstanding Fett's view of his clones as cannon fodder, Taun We and Prime Minister Lama Su considered them magnificent, calling them one of the finest armies ever grown on Kamino.

Training Boba Fett

"Four bounty hunters to hunt down one little runaway? Talk about overkill."
―Tiver
For the next ten years, Jango raised his son within Tipoca City from Kamino and occasionally had Boba accompany him on missions to track down countless bounties, teaching his son the "family trade." Despite providing a dangerous lifestyle for his cloned progeny, Jango ultimately taught Boba many of the skills he had learned as a bounty hunter, including piloting, survival skills, marksmanship, and combat training. The elder Fett had also taught his son how to pilot his ship, Slave I. Jango's training shaped Boba into a lethal combatant; as a youngling, Boba was more skilled in marksmanship than most beings in the galaxy.

     Jango trained Boba while taking jobs and operating out of Kamino.  
Fett continued to take jobs as a bounty hunter, which spread confusion throughout the bounty hunting community, as rumors had spread that Fett had a job with a mysterious client. A hunter named Neelda assumed Fett simply was not satisfied by doing only one job, although Fett was also looking to use such jobs to help in training Boba.
For Boba's first mission, Fett brought him along on a mission to retrieve a Twi'lek girl who had run away from home with her Falleen lover Griph. Fett and his son traveled to Telerath where they met with the team of bounty hunters they would be completing the mission with, a Rodian named Neelda, a Gand named Rinn, and a Chadra-Fan named Tiver. The three bounty hunters agreed to let Fett bring Boba along on the mission, and the group departed for Ord Mantell.
During the flight from Telerath to Ord Mantell, Boba complained to Fett about having to work with the three bounty hunters, asking why they could not work with bounty hunters like Cad Bane, Zam Wesell, or Aurra Sing instead. Fett explained to his son that the point of the mission was to teach Boba about adapting to unknown conditions, hence working with bounty hunters Boba did not know.
On Ord Mantell, Fett and his team quickly tracked the Twi'lek and Griph to a bar where the two were discussing their plan to join Black Sun. While Boba and the trio of hunters cornered the lovers on the bar's balcony, Fett waited below in case his hunch was correct that the Twi'lek girl would jump. When she fell from the balcony, Fett caught and stunned her. Fett then brought her unconscious body to Slave I in order to bring her back to her father.

     Rinn and Tiver threatened to kill Boba, Jango's son.  
Reuniting with his son and the other hunters, Fett and Boba were betrayed by Rinn and Tiver. Tiver pinned Boba, commanding Fett to give them the Twi'lek girl and forfeit his share of the bounty or she would kill his son. Fett, confident in his son's abilities, told her she could try to kill him. Boba, having hidden a small blaster on himself before the mission, killed both Tiver and Rinn before turning his blaster on Neelda. Boba asked Fett for guidance, and Fett told him that what happened to Neelda was his choice. Because Neelda had not aided Tiver and Rinn but also had not opposed them, Boba allowed Neelda to leave alive but without his share of the bounty.
As Fett and his son left Ord Mantell to collect their bounty, the two discussed how Boba had done on the mission. Boba asked if he had done all right despite what had happened, and Fett told Boba that he had shot well, trusted his judgement, and started to build his reputation. Fett said that a father could not ask for a better start to his son's legacy.

The Wesell run

"Half the fee is yours if you help me bring in this target. And it's a big one."
―Zam Wesell to Jango Fett
During or prior to 22 BBY, Fett was called upon by Wesell to aid her in a mission, which was a bounty on the terrestrial astronomical object known as Fytoun. A rich collector named Sinvatt Bovic was in heavy debt to the InterGalactic Banking Clan, and Wesell was to capture him alive. However, Wesell recognized her disadvantage, and she called in a favor from Fett, offering to split Bovic's bounty, Fett agreed. He landed Slave I in the valley and accompanied Wesell to take down the non-Mabari guards and detonate an outer wall to get inside. The explosion alerted the Mabari, who gave the bounty hunters trouble: it was only after Wesell used her changeling abilities that she and Fett were able to defeat the warriors and move toward Bovic's study. They found an individual who bore Bovic's appearance, but after Fett knocked out the third Mabari guard, the Bovic lookalike turned out to be another Clawdite who had been assuming the collector's appearance. Fett himself killed the imposter but not before the changeling hit him with a bluebarb wasp dart that nearly killed the hunter until Wesell located an antivenin. With their opposition gone, the pair moved forward, blasting another wall to get to a hangar where the real Bovic was trying to escape. Wesell sniped the collector's speeder and stunned him, allowing her to easily detain Bovic, and for her and Fett to leave Fytoun with their bounty.

Assassination plot

"I hit the ship, but they used a decoy.""We'll have to try something more subtle this time, Zam. My client is getting impatient. Here, take these. Be careful. They're very poisonous. Zam, there can be no mistakes this time."
―Zam Wesell and Jango Fett
     Fett subcontracted the hit on Senator Amidala to Zam Wesell, another bounty hunter.  
Towards the end of his life, Fett was involved in the assassination attempts against Senator Padmé Amidala, who was secretly being targeted by Dooku at the request of Nute Gunray of the Trade Federation. Fett had subcontracted Wesell to carry out these attempts. After Wesell failed to kill Amidala upon the Senator's arrival to Coruscant, Fett provided her with a pair of deadly kouhuns and tasked her to kill Amidala in her sleep. The plan was foiled by two Jedi that had been assigned to protect the Senator, Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker. Wesell fled, but was apprehended by the Jedi after a lengthy pursuit throughout Coruscant. However, before she was able to reveal the identity of her employer to the Jedi, Fett killed her at a substantial distance with a Kamino saberdart.

Discovered by the Jedi

"Do you like your army?""I look forward to seeing them in action.""They'll do their job well. I'll guarantee that."
―Jango Fett and Obi-Wan Kenobi
     Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi attempted to capture Fett before he could escape from Kamino.  
As part of a Jedi investigation into the assassination attempts, Fett was tracked back to Kamino by Kenobi after the Jedi was able to determine the Kaminoan origins of the saberdart used to kill Wesell. There, the two met under civil circumstances at Fett's apartment in Tipoca City. Fett was questioned by Kenobi, who wished to know the details surrounding the creation of the clone army and Fett's knowledge of Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas. After speaking to Boba in Fett Code, the bounty hunter only told Kenobi that he had never heard of anyone named Sifo-Dyas, and that he was recruited by someone called Tyranus. After Kenobi left, Fett told Boba they were leaving. However, on the landing platform where Fett's ship, Slave I, was docked, they were ambushed by Kenobi. The two battled for a short time before Kenobi went over the edge of the landing platform, giving Fett an opportunity to escape. Fett was followed to the planet Geonosis by Kenobi, who had placed a homing beacon on Slave I's hull. Fett led Kenobi on a prolonged chase through Geonosis' asteroid field and eventually locked onto his ship with a missile, believing Kenobi to have perished.

Death on Geonosis

"Whose helmet is that anyway?""It belongs to a bounty hunter I killed on Geonosis by the name of Jango Fett."
―Anakin Skywalker and Mace Windu
     The battle between Jango Fett and Mace Windu ended with the mercenary's death at the hands of the Jedi Order's champion.  
Fett later captured Skywalker and Amidala in the droid factory on Geonosis during their attempt to rescue Kenobi, who had been taken prisoner by the Separatists. In the Petranaki Arena, during the scheduled execution of Amidala, Kenobi, and Skywalker, Jedi Master Mace Windu led a Jedi assault team to rescue the three prisoners in what would be the first battle of the Clone Wars. Fett protected Dooku during the skirmish, killing Jedi Master Coleman Trebor before joining the melee in the arena and attacking Windu. Fett tried to take Windu's lightsaber, but was run over by a stampeding reek. The reek charged at Fett a second time, who dispatched it with one shot to the eye. Fett was then rushed by Windu and began firing at the Jedi, who deflected the bounty hunter's shots. Fett attempted to use his jetpack to get away, but the machine had been damaged earlier when the reek trampled him and failed to ignite. Thus Jango's long and storied career as a bounty hunter came to an end when Windu cleaved his armored head from his shoulders with a single sweep of his purple blade, with his headless corpse falling to the ground seconds later. After the battle quieted down, Boba cradled his father's helmet and mourned his death.

Legacy
Era of the Clone Wars

"Think of it. A Grand Army of the Republic. A show of strength and power like the galaxy has never seen. All stemming from you. How many men can claim such a legacy?"
―Darth Tyranus, to Jango Fett
     Throughout the Clone Wars, the Grand Army of the Republic was composed of clones of Jango Fett.  
After the death of Fett, his legacy was carried on by the millions of clone troopers that had been made in his image. They went on to form the backbone of the Grand Army of the Republic, which the Jedi Order held authority over through their new title as Jedi Generals. They were loyal to the Republic and the Jedi, and the Jedi encouraged Fett's clones to embrace their individuality instead of thinking in lockstep.
During Kenobi's visit to the planet Mandalore, he had a brief conversation with Prime Minister Almec about the late Jango Fett. Almec declared that Fett was just a common bounty hunter rather than a Mandalorian despite the armor he wore.
Fett's death inspired Boba to pursue a vendetta against Windu for the murder of his father. He teamed up with Aurra Sing, the Trandoshan bounty hunter Bossk, and the Klatooinian bounty hunter Castas in order to avenge his father's death. Boba infiltrated Windu's Star Destroyer, the Endurance, above the world of Vanqor and sabotaged it, causing it to crash on the planet's surface. He then attached a bomb to Jango's helmet and placed it in the bridge of the Endurance for Windu, hoping that when Windu came looking for survivors he would be killed by the bomb. However, the attempt was unsuccessful and Jango's helmet was blown to pieces with one side of the helmet remaining.

     The clones' true purpose was fulfilled through Order 66, the directive to terminate all Jedi.  
By the end of the Clone Wars, the fall of the Republic was complete. The Sith used their secret weapon, the clones of Jango Fett, to exterminate the Jedi. Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine—the Sith Lord Darth Sidious—triggered the clones' secret programming through Order 66, the directive to kill all members of the Jedi Order on sight. Following the success of Order 66 and the Republic's transformation into the Galactic Empire, the remaining Fett clones became the first generation of Imperial stormtroopers. Subservient to the will of the new Galactic Emperor, they enforced the laws of the New Order and suppressed Sidious' enemies during the early days of the Imperial Era. In the end, however, the clones were decommissioned and replaced with natural-born human recruits.

The son of Jango

"Tell the Jedi what he wants to know, Boba.""Why should I help anybody?! I've got no one.""It is the honorable thing to do. It's what your father would have wanted."
―Hondo Ohnaka and Boba Fett
     Boba carried on Jango's legacy by becoming a renowned bounty hunter in his own right.  
Jango's ship, Slave I, saw frequent use in the Clone Wars and later the Age of the Empire. It was initially inherited by Boba, who used it during the war along with Aurra Sing, but Sing crash landed it on the surface of Florrum during a fight with the Padawan Ahsoka Tano. Hondo Ohnaka, the leader of the pirate Ohnaka Gang, dragged Aurra from the wreckage of the ship and rebuilt the vessel, adding it to his personal fleet of ships. In the last year of the Clone Wars the Separatists invaded Florrum and destroyed Hondo's arsenal, prompting him to escape the planet in Slave I. Sometime later, Boba reclaimed the ship and continued using it to carry out bounties for the Empire.
Boba followed in his father's footsteps and became a freelance bounty hunter. By the time of the Galactic Empire, Boba was widely considered to be one of the deadliest bounty hunters in the galaxy, and, like Jango before him, Boba came to be seen as the galaxy's best bounty hunter. Boba used his father's name when he posed as a pit fighter on Nar Shaddaa, remembering holding Jango's empty helmet on Geonosis after his death before entering the pit. Shortly afterward, seeking to collect a bounty placed on Boba by crime lord Jabba Desilijic Tiure, bounty hunters Zuckuss and 4-LOM placed a charge on the Slave I, creating a trap that slightly damaged the vessel. Fett was angered, believing they had disrespected the ship and reminding them that it had belonged to his father.

     Boba regained his father's armor years after surviving his fall in a sarlacc pit.  
Fett was defeated combating the Rebel Han Solo on the planet Tatooine, but Boba was able to survive being devoured by the sarlacc. His armor, once that of Jango's, was scavenged by Jawas and claimed by Cobb Vanth, though Vanth later gave the armor to Din Djarin as payment for helping to take down a krayt dragon. Boba used Slave I to go to Tython in order to reclaim the armor from Djarin. He used the armor's inputted Mando'a chain code which included his and Jango's respective designations to support his claim to the armor. Although Boba maintained that he held no allegiance to any faction, his claim to the Mandalorian armor of Jango Fett, a foundling, was accepted by Djarin.
Shortly thereafter, Boba defended his claim to his armor from Bo-Katan Kryze and Koska Reeves after he doubted Kryze could reclaim Mandalore, noting that the armor belonged to Jango. However, Kryze denounced Boba, declaring that he was not a Mandalorian, a statement which Boba did not refute. She also referred to Jango as Boba's donor instead of his father, and realized that Boba was a clone after hearing his voice. A fight ensued between Reeves and Boba when the clone threatened Kryze.

Personality and traits

"One question for you, Tyranus. Why me? There are plenty of bounty hunters out there.""But there are few who have your reputation, Jango Fett. Both in terms of your skills and your discretion."
―Jango Fett and Darth Tyranus
     Fett was known as the galaxy's best bounty hunter in his time.  
Jango Fett was a human male who stood at 1.83 meters. He had black hair, brown eyes, and tan skin. Fett was a calm, analytic, and crafty mercenary, as well as an expert fighter, and reputedly, the best bounty hunter in the galaxy. He was also an honorable man according to his friend, the pirate Hondo Ohnaka. As a combatant, he was proficient in both marksmanship and unarmed combat. By the time of the Separatist Crisis, his face had several scars that he chose to conceal with a Mandalorian helmet. In combat, Fett favored the advantage of speed and height that his jetpack provided him with against his opponents. During a bounty hunting assignment, he warned Zam Wesell to be careful when handling a pair of poisonous kouhuns. However, he later killed his partner to prevent Wesell from revealing his involvement in Amidala's assassination attempt to her Jedi captors.
He was loyal to his employers whilst they retained his service as a mercenary. After Wesell failed in her first attempt on Amidala's life, Fett set a new plan into action and emphasized to his partner that their employer's patience was waning. He later served as Count Dooku's personal bodyguard during the battle between the Jedi and Separatists. A skilled and resourceful gunslinger, Fett was someone who preferred fighting up-close or at mid range, although he was just as dangerous from a distance away. Fett was confident enough in his skills as a warrior to unhesitatingly jump into a battle to face Mace Windu—the Jedi Order's greatest champion—but overestimated himself and paid for it with his life when Windu decapitated him.

     Fett passed his skills onto his son, Boba, whom he cared for.  
As a mercenary, Fett favored financial rewards for his services. Although he was generously compensated for his service as a clone template, he surprised his Kaminoan benefactors by requesting the creation of a clone for himself. This clone was unaltered in accordance with Fett's wishes, unlike the others who were modified for growth acceleration and enhanced docility. Fett provided the clone with a name, Boba Fett, and chose to raise him as his own. He cared greatly for his son, who learned combat skills and ruthlessness from the elder Fett, in contrast to the clone troopers that Fett called "livestock bred as cannon fodder."

Skills and abilities
     Fett's helmet  
Considered an ultimate soldier, Fett was incredibly skilled, earning himself his reputation. In particular, Fett's skills were unique because he was able to be very successful despite only being a human. Physical combat was one of his specialties. Fett was also an expert pilot, and passed on those skills to his son Boba Fett. His blaster-slinging skills were advanced enough to allow him to gun down Coleman Trebor, a Jedi Master and High Council member, but not sufficient to defeat Mace Windu, who killed the bounty hunter. Fett was most accurate from a distance away from his target, but up-close shots could be more damaging to his foes, with Fett's blasts against Trebor mere feet away indeed being both accurate and fatal. His shots against Windu, however, were deflected by the Jedi champion: although Fett had been someone who preferred close up combat, he ended up too close to Windu to escape.

Equipment
     Fett in his armor with his personal starship, Slave I.  

"The armor was given to my father, Jango, by your forebears."
―Boba Fett, to Din Djarin
Jango Fett wore a set of energized beskar Mandalorian armor and piloted a customized Firespray-31-class patrol and attack craft named Slave I throughout his career, which his son Boba inherited upon his death.
Fett also carried a vast array of equipment on his person. He owned a pair of highly customized Concordian Crescent Technologies WESTAR-34 blaster pistols with hollowed-out grips for a faster draw and coated in an expensive dallorian alloy to allow for sustained fire without risk of overheating and used a Z-6 jetpack with a built-in missile launcher. This jetpack was destroyed during his fight with Obi-Wan Kenobi on Kamino and Jango subsequently used a JT-12 jetpack until his death on Geonosis. He used a number of gadgets hidden in his vambraces, including vibroblades, a whipcord launcher, and a flamethrower.

Behind the scenes
Development
     Jango Fett concept art by Doug Chiang  
Jango Fett, named J'mee in early drafts, made his first appearance in the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, where he was portrayed by Temuera Morrison.
Jango's armor revisits the original 1970s-era designs for Boba Fett's armor. It was originally colored white like the clone troopers (a nod to Boba Fett's concept design during the development of The Empire Strikes Back), but at the end, it was changed to silver and blue.

Discrepancies
Jango Fett was a Mandalorian in the lore of Star Wars Legends. In the "Creating Mandalore" featurette on The Clone Wars: Season Two DVD set, however, series director Dave Filoni explained that, according to George Lucas, the Fetts were not Mandalorians. After the creation of the new official Star Wars canon, Pablo Hidalgo of the Lucasfilm Story Group reiterated that the Fetts are not Mandalorians, though they might claim to be.
However, Jango was stated to be a Mandalorian in the Z-6 Jetpack entry on the StarWars.com Databank and in Star Wars Helmet Collection 17. Boba was called a Mandalorian in Star Wars: Galactic Defense. Star Wars: Jedi vs. Sith described Fett as having been raised by "a race of warriors" but claimed he had no ties to Mandalore. In addition, one of the announcement teasers for The Mandalorian described Jango and his son Boba as Mandalorians, leaving their actual status as Mandalorians ambiguous. The discrepancy was resolved in "Chapter 14: The Tragedy" of The Mandalorian Season Two, which revealed that Fett was a Mandalorian foundling.
Ultimate Star Wars is ambiguous on how often Fett worked with Zam Wesell. The book states that Fett and Wesell were "sometime partners" but also names Wesell as a "frequent accomplice" of Fett's. The 2022 reference book Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters later agreed with the latter statement, as it featured Hondo Ohnaka describing Wessel as someone who "often partnered" with Fett,

Other appearances

"Having gotten the chance to write Jango in Bounty Hunters #37, I caught the bug to write more about the elder Fett. What interested me about Boba Fett is that he carries this darkness with him — the result of the trauma of watching his father get murdered during his childhood. By contrast, I play Jango as much less haunted. At this point in the timeline — before Kamino — he's a bounty hunter at the top of his game, making his mark in the wider galaxy. That makes him more of a swashbuckling, fun character, something we saw a bit of in Episode II."
―Ethan Sacks on Star Wars: Jango Fett
Before the cancellation of Star Wars: The Clone Wars TV series, Jango's son Boba was set to star in a four-episode arc featuring him and fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane. During a "rescue mission" on Tatooine in order to save a child from Tusken Raiders, the story would emphasize Boba's and Cad's relation to one another as Cad had known Jango.
Writer Ethan Sacks grew eager to write about Jango Fett after getting a taste for writing him in his comic Bounty Hunters 37 and asked for a chance to write a series on the character after he finished his run on Star Wars: Bounty Hunters, which was approved. As such, Sacks wrote the 2024 comic miniseries Star Wars: Jango Fett and expressed hope that more Jango stories would come if it was successful. When asked about the differences between Jango and Boba, Sacks described Jango as someone far less haunted than his son, stating that Boba had an internal darkness that stemmed from watching his father's execution. To Sacks, Jango could be written in a far more "swashbuckling, fun" way than his son: Sacks believed this was especially true in the days before Attack of the Clones as Jango was off making his mark on the galaxy, but believed it was evident in the film itself as well.

Non-canon history
In the non-canon video game Angry Birds Star Wars II, Fett's role differs from that in the films. He is present during the events of The Phantom Menace and assists Darth Sidious as his main ally. During the events of Attack of the Clones, his death was changed being accidentally shot apparently by a stormtrooper, rather than beheaded by Mace Windu.
