







Karthon Chop Fields


General information

Constructed
By 4 ABY


Location
Karthon



Chronological and political information

Affiliation
Galactic EmpireNew RepublicNew Republic Correctional Corps


[Source]



"Migs Mayfeld. Serving 50 years in the Karthon Chop Fields for springing a prisoner himself."
―Cara Dune
The Karthon Chop Fields was a scrap yard used as a correction facility by the New Republic. Around 9 ABY, the ex-Imperial sharpshooter Migs Mayfeld was sentenced to the chop fields for fifty years. Wanting Mayfeld's help, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Din Djarin used the help of the New Republic Marshal Cara Dune to free the ex-Imperial, taking Mayfeld offworld aboard the Firespray-31-class patrol and attack craft Slave I.

Description
The Karthon Chop Fields was a correction facility and scrapyard on Karthon where the New Republic sent prisoners to serve time, using prison labor to scrap old Imperial starships and other equipment. A model of mobile loading gantry was used to help move the materiel. Prisoners there were given uniforms and tools, toiling in the scrap heaps with N5 sentry droids overseeing them.

History

"What do you want with him?""I need to spring him to help me locate Moff Gideon's light cruiser."
―Cara Dune and Din Djarin
Materials from the Karthon Chop Fields were used for construction on the second Death Star, which was destroyed in 4 ABY. After the fall of the Empire, the New Republic used the scrap fields for prison labor. Around 9 ABY, Migs Mayfeld, an ex-Imperial sharpshooter who had been apprehended during the breakout aboard the New Republic prison ship Bothan-5 near the Dilestri system, was sent to serve fifty years in the Karthon Chop Fields for his involvement in the mission and the death of an officer about the starship.

     Migs Mayfeld is approached by N5 sentry droid at the Karthon Chop Fields  
Din Djarin, a Mandalorian bounty hunter who had led Mayfeld into the hands of the New Republic, sought to free Mayfeld in order to help him locate an Imperial light cruiser belonging to Moff Gideon. He traveled to Karthon Chop Fields with the New Republic Marshal Cara Dune, the bounty hunter Boba Fett and the assassin Fennec Shand. Using her powers under the New Republic, Dune had an N5 sentry droid lead her to Mayfeld, and she freed him from his shackles. Dune then led him back to Fett's Firespray-31-class patrol and attack craft, Slave I, and the ex-Imperial left with Djarin's group.

Behind the scenes

"In episode, the miniature model maker built 12, 15 TIE fighter balls and this wonderful table top set to be visualized on the screen. That's an example of taking the practical models and bringing it into today's technology."
―Visual effects supervisor Richard Bluff
     Concept art of the Karthon Chop Fields by Erik Tiemens  
The Karthon Chop Fields was first mentioned in "Chapter 14: The Tragedy" of Jon Favreau's Disney+ series The Mandalorian, which was directed by Robert Rodriguez and aired on December 4 2020. The location then first appeared in the following episode "Chapter 15: The Believer," which was directed by Rick Famuyiwa and released on December 11 2020. The set was designed as a miniature model, which included 12 to 15 TIE fighter balls, and then scanned and projected in The Volume, a production space with wrap-around LED screens to show CGI backgrounds.
