







"Landing at Point Rain"

Production information

Series
Star Wars: The Clone Wars


Season
Two


Episode
5


Production No.
2.07


Air date
November 4, 2009


Run time
24 minutes


Director(s)
Brian Kalin O'Connell


Writer(s)
Brian LarsenDrew Z. Greenberg (Supervising)



Episode chronology

Timeline
21 BBY


Previous episode
"Senate Spy"


Next episode
"Weapons Factory"


[Source]



"Believe in yourself or no one else will."
―Moral
"Landing at Point Rain" is the fifth episode in Season Two of the Star Wars: The Clone Wars television series. It is the twenty-seventh episode of the series overall. It was given the special advance airing date of November 4, 2009 on Cartoon Network following a three-week break of new episodes and is the second of a five-part storyline.

Official description
Anakin, Ahsoka, Obi-Wan, and Ki-Adi-Mundi lead a landing party to destroy a droid factory on Geonosis.

Plot summary

"Pilot, begin landing sequence."
―Commander Cody, to the clone trooper pilot


Episode 5LANDING AT POINT RAIN


Counterattack! With the clone army
stretched in desperate attempt to engage
General Grievous' Starfleet, Separatists
planets that were once thought secure are
now rising up against the Republic. On
Geonosis, Separatist leader Poggle the
Lesser, safe in his newly ray-shielded
factories, creates thousands of terrible new
weapons which march off the assembly
line against the outnumbered clone army.

The Jedi, resolute in their effort to restore
order to the Republic, mount a massive
invasion to retake Geonosis and shut down
Poggle's factories of terror once and for all....




A massive Republic fleet arrives in orbit of Geonosis, where Masters Obi-Wan and Mundi remember the battle that started the war. Anakin and Ahsoka come onto the bridge, having counted their respective squadrons' kills at Dorrin. They contact Outer Rim Command (comprising Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, Yoda, Mace Windu, and Luminara Unduli), informing them that they intend to make a three-prong attack against the shield protecting Poggle's droid foundries. Chancellor Palpatine expresses concern over committing a huge force for this attack, but Yoda assures him that capturing Poggle is a priority. Once Coruscant signs off, the Jedi outline their plan with Captain Rex, Jet, and Commander Cody, who is to secure a landing zone for their forces.
As the Republic musters their clone troopers, Cody confides in Obi-Wan that he was not involved in the first battle on Geonosis; Obi-Wan states he missed nothing and tells a small anecdote detailing how he was chained to a pole and attacked by three big monsters. He gets into his gunship and the mission starts. The landing transports then try to deal with the Geonosian anti-air and air defenses. Early in the mission, Anakin's gunship is shot down. But he, Ahsoka, and his troops survive and push forward, despite losing his tanks. Elsewhere, Cody receives an order from Ki-Adi-Mundi to land the AT-TEs. Once Cody lands, he warns Obi-Wan not to land, for it is too dangerous. However, that is not an option for the Jedi, as his gunship is shot down. General Mundi's gunship is hit and Mundi is wounded.
With all three groups far from the attack zone, they are forced to press through. Anakin, Ahsoka and Rex move to take out a Geonosian defense line. Meanwhile, Cody dispatches Waxer and Boil to retrieve Obi-Wan, who, with another trooper called Trapper, had managed to survive. Elsewhere, as Mundi searches for Anakin, Commander Jet calls Admiral Yularen for reinforcements or air support. However, the admiral is unable to provide them air support without risking other areas of their campaign; the only thing he can do is help him find General Skywalker. As Mundi leads his troops into a cave, following his instincts, they are attacked by Geonosian flyers.
Anakin and Ahsoka run right into a high wall, armed with many laser turrets, where droids at the high ground start shooting at them. Anakin and Ahsoka manage to get to the top of the wall, where they destroy the droids. But two droidekas pop up from the wall, trapping the two Jedi. However, Rex is able to get through one's shields and shoot it, while Anakin hacks the other. They throw the explosive charges into the deployment holes before jumping off the wall. Once the way is clear, they meet Mundi, who had fought his way through the Geonosians and cleared his way with clone flametroopers. Anakin then calls on Admiral Yularen for air support, and the admiral gives one squadron.
For Obi-Wan, the droid forces whittle his troops. Luckily, a squadron of Y-wing bombers managed to even the odds, as Anakin, Ahsoka and Mundi arrive. They then improvise on their plan, involving Anakin taking a squad to blind the droids' scanners at their gun emplacements, to the approach of their AT-TE's attacking the shield generator, allowing the rest of their force to take the factory.
Anakin and Ahsoka lead the charge, throwing EMP grenades that disable the enemy cannons, enabling the AT-TEs to destroy the shield generator. Gunships then come in and Geonosians in the area surrender. As they recuperate, Anakin and Ahsoka tally their kills: Anakin 55, Ahsoka 60. The former goes to see Mundi and Obi-Wan off, who are leaving for medical treatment. Mundi joins his game, stating that he had 65 kills, earning Anakin's respect.

Continuity
Ki-Adi-Mundi's line "there's no such thing as luck" is a direct reference to Obi-Wan Kenobi's line "In my experience, there is no such thing as luck" in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope.
Supervising director Dave Filoni prepared a script as a prelude for the episode; it was given to the cast for a special presentation at a convention right before the episode aired.
Jet is addressed as both "Commander" and "Captain" interchangeably despite only holding the former rank.
During the opening briefing, Luminara Unduli, attending via hologram, is briefly shown as being physically present in one shot.

Credits

By type 


Cast

Uncredited cast

Crew

Uncredited crew

Special thanks


Cast



Matt Lanter as Anakin Skywalker
Brian George as Ki-Adi-Mundi
Dee Bradley Baker as the Clone troopers
Ashley Eckstein as Ahsoka Tano
James Arnold Taylor as Obi-Wan Kenobi
Tom Kane as Narrator, Yoda, Admiral Wullf Yularen
Olivia d'Abo as Luminara Unduli
Terrence Carson as Mace Windu
Ian Abercrombie as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine
Matthew Wood as the Battle Droids




