Mace Windu


Biographical information

Homeworld
Haruun Kal


Born
72 BBY, Haruun Kal


Died
19 BBY, Coruscant



Descriptive information

Species
Human


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.92 meters


Hair color
Black; later bald


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Dark



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Jedi OrderJedi High CouncilJedi assault teamMace Windu's squadGalactic RepublicGrand Army of the Republic


Masters
Cyslin MyrYoda


Apprentices
Depa Billaba


[Source]



"Remember that war is like a fire across the galaxy. It spreads and it consumes. We must never waver in the face of that fire. We are keepers of the peace. We are Jedi. The Republic needs us more than ever, which means our faith in the Force, our connection to the Force must never waver."
―Mace Windu
Mace Windu was a revered Force-sensitive human male Jedi Master and member of the Jedi High Council during the last years of the Republic Era. During his time in the Jedi Order, he once served as elected leader of the Jedi and, during the Clone Wars, as a Jedi General in the Grand Army of the Republic. He was the greatest champion of the Jedi Order and promoted its ancient traditions amidst the growing influence of the dark side of the Force in the corrupt, declining days of the Republic.
When the Separatist Crisis spawned the birth of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and sparked the Clone Wars, Windu and the Jedi rallied to the defense of the Republic and became the leaders of the Grand Army of the Republic. Throughout the war, Windu served the Jedi and the Republic in various capacities—on the battlefield in command of the clone army, on Coruscant as an overseer of the war effort and an advisor to Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, and even as a diplomat to contested worlds, despite his disdain of politics. His exploits on the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned Jedi warrior.
As the war drew to a close, Windu became increasingly suspicious of the chancellor's motives, as Palpatine had amassed near-dictatorial control over the Galactic Senate, and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the galaxy. His suspicions were confirmed when Anakin Skywalker, a Jedi Knight and the Chosen One of ancient prophecy, discovered that Palpatine was Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith who manipulated and deceived the Republic and the Separatist Alliance into war. Windu, along with Jedi Masters Kit Fisto, Saesee Tiin, and Agen Kolar, confronted Palpatine with the intention of arresting him. Instead, the Dark Lord attacked them, striking them down one by one until only Windu was left. Windu bested Palpatine in the confrontation and—deciding the chancellor was too dangerous to be left alive due to his influence over the government—prepared to strike him down, but the intervention of Anakin Skywalker, who betrayed Windu and saved the chancellor's life, led to Windu's death. As a result, Skywalker fell to the temptation of the dark side and was renamed Darth Vader.
Windu's actions led Palpatine to brand the Jedi as traitors to the Republic. The chancellor executed Order 66, forcing the clone troopers across the galaxy to turn against and kill their Jedi leaders, marking the fall of the Jedi Order. Palpatine transformed the Republic into the Galactic Empire and the Emperor's new regime promoted anti-Jedi sentiment across the galaxy. Through propaganda, the Empire portrayed Windu as the leader of a criminal gang of Jedi who caused the outbreak of the Clone Wars. In spite of the propaganda, some of Windu's actions were remembered with fondness; General Cham Syndulla, who served alongside Windu during the Battle of Ryloth, remembered Windu with great respect and told the tale of how Windu helped him liberate Ryloth during the war.

Biography
Early life
Jedi youngling

"I'm never going to be able to build my lightsaber.""Patience, young Mace. The secret is that the pieces never needed to be built."
―Mace Windu and Huyang
     Professor Huyang assisted young Mace Windu with building his lightsaber.  
Mace Windu was born on the planet Haruun Kal in the year 72 BBY. Like most other toddlers from Haruun Kal, Windu received an inoculation that left a small scar on his body. Due to his natural affinity to the Force, Windu was sent to the Jedi Order—a monastic order of protectors, sworn to defend the Galactic Republic, and known as the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy—to learn the Jedi arts.
As a Jedi youngling, Windu endeavored to create his own lightsaber after obtaining an amethyst-colored kyber crystal. He initially failed in the effort, however, causing Windu to doubt his ability to pass this particular rite in Jedi training. After observing Windu's struggle, Professor Huyang concluded that the youngling had neither the patience nor the correct understanding to complete his lightsaber. The droid instructor advised Windu to temper his emotions. The secret, according to Huyang, was that a lightsaber's components never needed to be "built." Windu never responded well to Grand Master Yoda's sense of humor. As a youngling, he was taught to "let go" and trust in the Force.

Mission to Mathas

"A fire burns inside you, Padawan. That, in itself, is not inherently wrong. It is my job to help you temper it. This is why I chose you to accompany me on this mission. I do so enjoy a challenge."
―Cyslin Myr, to Mace Windu
     Padawan Windu was trained in the ways of the Force by Jedi Master Cyslin Myr.  
Following his early trials as a youngling, Windu attained the status of Padawan by becoming Jedi Master Cyslin Myr's apprentice. During Windu's apprenticeship in 60 BBY, a man named Drooz had taken residence in a Jedi outreach temple on the planet Mathas. With the local populace suffering from the effects of the Niffin plague, Drooz convinced the people that he was a Jedi prophet who could heal the sick and the dying in return for their faith and servitude. Upon receiving reports of Drooz's activities, the Order dispatched Myr to assess and apprehend him. At the same time, Myr sought to teach Windu how to channel his frustrations into an appropriate emotion and therefore brought him to Mathas.
As they made their way to the temple, Windu observed the people's situation and pondered on what the Jedi could do to alleviate their suffering. He also denounced Drooz as a heretic and swindler who perverted the Jedi doctrine in order to take advantage of the people's misery. At that point his Master cautioned him to suppress his hostile feelings, having noticed how the thought of Drooz using the Jedi's teachings to prey on others frustrated Windu. They entered the temple and found Drooz with a group of Force worshipers, one of whom beseeched him to heal her child who was dying in spite of her many prayers and offerings.
Drooz's followers came to his defense when the Jedi openly confronted him. Using the distraction they created, he tried to escape from the temple but was pursued by Windu. Although Drooz's Gamorrean bodyguards were defeated by the Padawan, Drooz managed to injure Windu's left arm with his blaster pistol. He taunted Windu and mocked the Jedi's ways, sneering at their commitment to peace as he believed they should use their power to gain wealth through the faith of millions. Using the Force to immobilize Drooz, Windu disarmed him and vowed that he would never hurt anyone else. However, Myr intervened by ordering Windu to lower his lightsaber. While she understood her apprentice's frustrations, Myr believed that Drooz's punishment should be decided in a court of law.

Knight of the Order
Windu eventually continued training under the guidance of Yoda and eventually ascended into a Jedi Knight and partook in various assignments throughout the galaxy.

Investigating Mattis Cotto
During a specific mission, Windu was assigned to investigate Mattis Coto, the warden of the Devshi prison complex, due to suspicions of his involvement in the illicit trade of skeleton keys. This suspicion arose after the apprehension of convicts in Kenvin 8, where one of the prisoners claimed to have received a skeleton key from Coto. Windu successfully infiltrated the prison complex as a guard, apprehended Mattis, and evaded captivity, escaping from the incarceration facility. Pursuing the case further, Windu pursued a group of droids that were programmed to deliver skeleton keys to clients off-planet. Employing his formidable abilities and lightsaber, Windu utilized a mind trick to gain the assistance of an impromptu skiff pilot. Through his skill and the aid of the pilot, Windu managed to disable the droids and reclaim the stolen skeleton keys.

Race for Coxium Ultra
Following his previous mission, Windu returned to the Jedi Temple to provide a report on his successful completion to Master Yoda. During this meeting, Master Yoda, along with Gara, assigned Windu his next task: the recovery of the coxium ultra formula from a smuggler named Azita Cruuz. It was revealed that Azita had offered the formula to the Jedi Order and other criminal organizations in exchange for Republic credits and a safe passage offworld from Ro Mira. Windu discovered that the formula, if obtained by the wrong individuals, could grant criminal elements a significant advantage, as coxium ultra had the potential to boost sublight engines by 120% without consequences. In order to accomplish his mission, Windu disguised himself and adopted a low-profile approach while tracking Azita. Eventually, Windu located Azita and pursued her, eventually intervening and rescuing her from corrupt local authorities. 
During their attempt to escape off-world, Windu becomes acquainted with Azita's backstory. She had encountered a client who was aware of Doctor Bishop's work, which involved refining the coxium formula by relocating to Ro Mira, a planet known for its blue fire lava that enhances the results of coxium. Azita assisted the scientist in developing the formula but also administered a drug obtained on Coruscant to induce temporary sleep and erase his memory of the past six months. While Windu views Azita's actions as morally questionable, she argues that circumstances often force people into actions against their will, drawing a parallel to Windu's own path as a Jedi and questioning if he had willingly chosen it. Their discussion is interrupted by the presence of bore worms, creatures that are resistant to lightsabers. Windu relies on the Force to neutralize them, a decision that Azita criticizes. Windu explains that he spared the bore worms because they were acting as animals without malicious intent, comparing the purpose of a lightsaber to that of a shield. He also responds to Azita's earlier question about his service to the Jedi Order, admitting that while he did not consciously volunteer, he has not dwelled on the alternative life he might have had, considering it futile and potentially dangerous. Windu believes that his current path is where he is meant to be. Azita, still uncertain about whom she will sell the formula to, becomes more open to the idea of selling it to someone from their shared homeworld of Haruun Kal, deducing their common background based on the inoculation scars they both bear from their time as toddlers on Haruun Kal. As the pair continues their escape, with Azita unsure if she can fully trust Windu, they find themselves pursued by members of the Shroud.

Rising through the ranks

"I am told that you will be presented with Master Katri's Council seat.""I will.""Is this something you knew was happening before we left for Raxus?""I was as surprised as you are now. Dooku, you and I both were together when the mission was assigned. I stuck to the mission. You decided to interfere in a way that led to a senator's death. I will speak to the Council on your behalf.""How kind of you, Master Jedi."
―Dooku and Mace Windu
Sometime later, he became a Jedi Master and gained a seat on the Jedi High Council—the governing body of the Jedi Order. His ascension to the ranks of the High Council came between 50 BBY and 42 BBY as a result of the mission on Raxus Secundus, where Jedi Master Katri was killed. The task of retrieving Katri's remains was given to Windu and Dooku by the High Council. Unsatisfied with Senator Larik's testimony regarding an ambush that killed Katri, Dooku sought to conduct his own investigation. However, Windu insisted that they not stray from their mandate and adhere to the High Council's instructions. He also reminded Dooku that as neither of them were members of the High Council, they did not possess the authority to interfere in political conflicts without the blessings of their Council or the Galactic Senate. Although Dooku regarded Windu as a friend, he considered his colleague's strict devotion to Jedi protocol "inspiring and maddening."

     The Jedi Windu and Dooku were attacked by a group of disgruntled security guards, who were responsible for the death of Jedi Master Katri.  
Windu and Dooku met with Senator Larik in Raxulon. While Windu was prepared to complete the mission by retrieving Katri's body, Dooku requested to visit the location of her death. The senator was reluctant to comply until one of his security guards, Semage, agreed to escort the Jedi. Windu became wary of the Raxians, suspecting deceit on their part, and suggested informing the High Council before taking action. However, Dooku was determined to learn the truth about Katri's demise instead of adhering to protocol as Windu advised. Upon investigating the area where Katri died, the Jedi concluded that the evidence did not support the Raxians' account. Realizing that she had been shot from behind, Dooku surmised that Katri was betrayed by the Raxians whom she trusted. Windu tried to deescalate the situation when Dooku activated his his lightsaber demanding the truth. In a panic, Senator Larik confessed that his own guards murdered Katri and attempted to reach the Jedi, but was fatally shot by one of his officers. A skirmish ensued between the Jedi and the Raxians; the Jedi Masters worked together to destroy the Raxians' droid support before neutralizing the guards. Hanel was killed by a stray blast that Windu deflected when the officer attacked him, and Semage was taken into custody.

     Returning from Raxus Secundus, Windu attended the funeral of Master Katri and was granted her seat on the Jedi High Council.  
Semage accused the Jedi of protecting the interests of a corrupt Senate. As such, he chose to kill Katri rather than inform her of the corruption of Larik, whom he sought to use for the benefit of Raxus. Windu contested the officer's opinion in stating that as a Jedi, Katri would have listened to Semage. Windu and Dooku later attended the funeral of Katri at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Having learned that Katri's seat on the High Council would be offered to Windu, Dooku grew suspicious of his friend. Windu insisted he was as surprised as Dooku was about his elevation to the High Council's ranks. Furthermore, Windu reminded Dooku that they had both received their orders from the High Council, and it was Dooku who pursued a course of action that resulted in the death of a Republic senator. Nevertheless, Windu assured Dooku that he would speak on his behalf to the High Council.
Long regarded as the Jedi Order's greatest champion, Windu endeavored to maintain the Jedi's ancient traditions while the Republic declined due to galactic unrest and political corruption. As one of the most distinctive members of the Order, Windu crafted a new lightsaber which—in addition to its specially designed handgrip and electrum finish, indicating his status as a member of the High Council—also emitted a plasma blade of amethyst, making it one of the most distinctive Jedi weapons.
After translating an encrypted message sent out by Depa Billaba, Windu rescued Billaba and Sar Labooda from pirates, using his lightsaber in combat during the incident. He brought both to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. He trained Billaba as his Padawan until she became a Jedi Knight. By 40 BBY, Billaba was serving on the High Council alongside her former Master. In the Jedi Temple, as a Knight and then Master, Windu gave lessons about letting go and trusting in the Force. Prior to the Invasion of Naboo, Windu became involved in theatre for a time and was taught to act the works of Harido Kavila by Jedi Council member, Alxa Kress.

Mission to Oosalon

"And what of Quia, Master Yoda? She is a young enough orphan that perhaps she could find a new home.""No. Face imprisonment for her role in terrorist attacks, she will. Interfere in local laws, we cannot.""Then we didn't save everyone… did we?"
―Mace Windu and Yoda
     Windu's capture was part of the Jedi's strategy to locate the camp of the warlord Guattako.  
In 34 BBY, The Jedi Order deployed Mace Windu along with several other Jedi on a mission to the Outer Rim world of Oosalon due to the terrorist attacks committed by Guattako's army. He allowed himself to be captured and taken to Guattako in order to discover the location of the warlord's base of operations, which was hidden in 80,000 kilometers of caveernous tunnels. Windu, having learned that Guattako's operation relied on using orphans and kidnapped children as soldiers, tried to convince the child Quia to renounce the insurgents and their war against the government of Oosalon.
Windu denounced Guattako as a terrorist and a kidnapper who relied on the Hutt Clan to financially support his cause. With Windu's lightsaber broken down to its components, Guattako was confident in his ability to detain the Jedi Master whom he intended to execute, believing that Windu's death would inspire others to join his fledgling group. By the time he realized that Windu had planned on getting captured, the Jedi had reassembled his lightsaber through the Force. He also revealed that he had used the Force to help his fellow Jedi find the insurgents' camp.

     Windu and his fellow Jedi succeeded in disrupting the terrorist operations of the warlord Guattako.  
Windu successfully defended himself against Quia and the other insurgents before engaging Guattako in single combat. During the battle, Guattako was fatally shot by one of the abducted chilren who wanted to return to his home. By then, the other Jedi arrived at Windu's location. With the Jedi's assistance, the remaining insurgents were taken into custody by the security forces of Oosalon. Although the Jedi had succeeded in rescuing twenty-six abducted school children, Windu had also hoped to save Quia and the child soldiers who were already indoctrinated into Guattako's cause. However, Yoda stated that the Jedi could not interfere in the planet's local affairs, and that Quia would be sent to prison for her part in Guattako's terrorist campaign. Windu accepted the outcome, but lamented on not being able to help Quia.

Invasion of Naboo

"There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Sith.""Always two, there are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice.""But which was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?"
―Mace Windu and Yoda, on the return of the Sith
     Windu served on the Jedi High Council during the decline of the Galactic Republic.  
Approximately ten years before the Clone Wars, Windu, hours after attending a Council meeting, found Yoda alone in a small garden in the Jedi Temple. Denying Yoda's joke about whether he had an embarrassing question he couldn't ask in front of the Council, he questioned whether the Grand Master had sensed something he had not told them of. Yoda explained he was instead sensing a lack of something, much to the confusion of Windu, leading to a debate about the concepts of "nothing" and "something." Deciding the Force would educate him in due time, Windu decided to trust Yoda's judgement, leaving the room after not speaking for several minutes. Later, the Trade Federation initiated a blockade of the planet Naboo. At the request of Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum, the Jedi Council ordered Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice, Obi-Wan Kenobi, to settle the dispute as emissaries of the chancellor. Upon returning from their failed mission, the Council was made aware of a far greater threat, the ancient enemy of the Jedi—the Sith—had returned.
However, neither Mace Windu or Ki-Adi-Mundi were particularly convinced that the Jedi Order's ancient nemesis could have returned, much less avoid the awareness of the Jedi Council. Nevertheless, Windu assured them that the full resources of the Order would be utilized to verify the truth of Jinn's claims—and more specifically, the identity of the dark warrior who attacked him on Tatooine. It was then that Jinn revealed another significant discovery that he made during the course of his mission. Prior to his departure from Tatooine and subsequent return to Coruscant, Jinn encountered Anakin Skywalker. Unknown to the Jedi, the slave Shmi Skywalker had given birth to a son who was exceptionally powerful with the Force; because of Anakin's inherent potential and the circumstances surrounding his birth, Jinn believed Anakin could have been conceived by the midi-chlorians.
Windu knew that Jinn referred to the Jedi prophecy of the Chosen One—The One who would restore balance to the Force by destroying the Sith. Although Skywalker possessed the highest concentration of midi-chlorians in his cells, Windu was skeptical of Jinn's claims, but nonetheless agreed to meet the boy in the Council's chamber where they would evaluate his aptitude with the Force. The Council was impressed by Skywalker's ability to use the Force without any formal training, but they also sensed his emotional attachment to his mother and a great amount of fear within him. As such, they declined Jinn's request to have him trained in the Jedi arts. Windu personally felt that Skywalker was too old to commit his life to the Jedi Code, as well as the Force, without the distraction of his emotional attachments.
The Council soon reversed its decision after Jinn's death during the Battle of Naboo, entrusting Skywalker's training to the newly-anointed Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi. Windu continued to doubt Skywalker's ability to commit himself to the Jedi way, however, and his ill-concealed distrust would put a strain on their relationship throughout the years as Skywalker ascended the ranks of the Jedi Order. During the funeral of Qui-Gon Jinn, which the Naboo waited to begin until the arrival of the Jedi Council, Yoda and Windu realized that Jinn had been correct; the Sith had indeed survived and endured over the last millennium. Yoda quoted the Rule of Two, an ancient Sith philosophy that limited their ranks to two Sith Lords—a master and an apprentice—causing Windu to ponder over which of the two was defeated by Kenobi. When Jinn's body had turned to ash, Windu and the other Council members left the funeral. Afterward, he attended the victory celebration on Naboo along with Yoda, several members of the Jedi Council, and the newly-elected Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine.

Training Skywalker

"Remember, Obi-Wan. If the prophecy is true, your apprentice is the only one who can bring the Force back into balance."
―Mace Windu, to Obi-Wan Kenobi
     Anakin Skywalker's path to Jedi Knighthood was closely monitored by Windu, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine.  
The training of Anakin Skywalker drew the attention of his peers, Padawans and Jedi Masters alike, as well as Chancellor Palpatine, during his first three years as Kenobi's apprentice. He especially took an interest in lightsaber combat, as noted by Palpatine, although Windu was more focused on the training droid—mimicking the appearance and fighting style of Darth Maul—that Skywalker sparred with. Neither Windu or Kenobi had expected to see Skywalker duel with the visage of Maul, but the act served to impress Palpatine.
However, Kenobi was forced to intervene after Skywalker used the Force to take the lightsabers of two nearby apprentices, having overheard them mocking him for being a "slave to his emotions." Windu observed the incident as an example of how Skywalker was a complicated case for the Jedi, given the fact that he joined the Order far later than any of his contemporaries. After mentioning that Skywalker's training was an extremely difficult task for Kenobi, Windu politely declined the chancellor's offer to help guide the young Jedi. However, Palpatine claimed that as the Jedi were under the jurisdiction of the Senate, by extension they also reported to the Senate's chancellor. After considering Palpatine's line of reasoning, Windu agreed to send Skywalker to speak with the chancellor.
In the days leading up to the start of the Clone Wars, the High Council was confident that Skywalker was ready to be given a mission of his own for the first time. By then, Windu regarded him as an exceptionally skilled Jedi, but Kenobi was concerned that his Padawan's abilities led him to become arrogant and therefore had much to learn. Yoda concurred with Kenobi, but also felt that Skywalker was not an isolated case. In his assessment, other Jedi had grown overconfident in their skills as well. At this, Windu told Kenobi to keep the prophecy in mind, for if Skywalker was indeed the Chosen One then only he could bring the Force back into a state of balance.

Testing Kenobi and Skywalker
In 26 BBY, Windu was involved in a test of the Master and apprenticeship of Kenobi and Skywalker, partnering with Yoda and Jedi Master Bant Eerin to feign the kidnapping of the Grandmaster.

Clone Wars
Prelude to war

"You must realize there aren't enough Jedi to protect the Republic. We are keepers of the peace, not soldiers."
―Mace Windu, to Sheev Palpatine
     Windu warned Palpatine that the Jedi Order lacked the manpower to protect the Republic in the event of war.  
In the decade that followed the Battle of Naboo, the Galactic Republic faced an existential crisis as thousands of star systems and powerful corporations threatened to secede from the ancient democratic union. Chancellor Palpatine assured the Jedi Council that his office was seeking a peaceful resolution with the Separatists, and that he would not permit secession to divide the millennium-old Republic. Despite the chancellor's assurances, Mace Windu advised him to consider just how vulnerable the Republic truly was—the Jedi Order lacked the sufficient manpower to defend the entire Republic in the event of war. Moreover, the Order was a force of peacekeepers rather than soldiers.
As the Galactic Senate continued to debate over whether to vote for or against the proposed Military Creation Act, Senator Padmé Amidala narrowly avoided an assassination attempt on her life. During a meeting with the chancellor, she revealed to Windu and Yoda her suspicion that Count Dooku was involved in the attack. Although Dooku had renounced his Jedi status before becoming the leader of the Separatist movement, Windu refused to believe that even a former Jedi could be involved in a plot to assassinate the Naboo senator—or anyone for that matter. Nevertheless, Windu heeded Yoda and Palpatine's warning that Amidala's life was in grave danger, regardless of whether Dooku was personally involved or not. As such, he dispatched Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker to serve as temporary bodyguards for the senator. After the death of Amidala's would-be assassin, Zam Wesell, Windu and the Council instructed Kenobi to track Wesell's accomplice who evaded capture. They also ordered Skywalker to accompany Amidala to her home planet of Naboo in case of another assassination attempt against her.
While the Separatist Crisis worsened, Windu concurred with Yoda's belief that the dark side of the Force was responsible for the turmoil that undermined galactic peace and stability. They were especially disturbed to learn that Kenobi's investigation led him to the planet Kamino where their agent discovered the existence of a secret army—hundreds of thousands of clone troopers, in addition to a million more units in development. Prime Minister Lama Su, the leader of the Kaminoan cloners, revealed that the army was made to serve the Galactic Republic. He also asserted that the client who commissioned the project was the late Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, whom he presumed was alive and a leading member of the Jedi Council until Kenobi corrected his assumption.

     Kenobi's discovery of the clone army concerned Windu and Grand Master Yoda, both of whom were aware that the dark side clouded their collective vision.  
Kenobi followed the source of the clone army, the bounty hunter Jango Fett, to the planet Geonosis where he reported another discovery to Windu and Yoda, both of whom witnessed his transmission in the Chancellor's office. Dooku and the Separatist Council had no intention of negotiating a peaceful solution with the Republic; they merely stalled for time in order to construct a massive army of battle droids for one purpose—to wage war on the Republic. After the Senate voted to empower Chancellor Palpatine with emergency wartime powers, which he quickly used to authorize the formation of the Grand Army of the Republic, Windu led a Jedi assault team to Geonosis in order to rescue Kenobi while Yoda moved to take command of the clone troopers on Kamino.

Battle of Geonosis

"This party's over."
―Mace Windu, confronting Count Dooku on Geonosis
     Jango Fett confronted the champion of the Jedi Order, a decision that led to the bounty hunter's decapitation by Windu's blade.  
Windu and the Jedi prevented the execution of Kenobi, as well as Skywalker and Amidala, both of whom traveled to Geonosis with the intention to help Kenobi, but were quickly confronted by an overwhelming force of battle droids. The Jedi fought bravely, destroying many battle droids in the process, but also sustained a large number of casualties. During the fight, Windu swiftly killed Jango Fett with relative ease, decapitating the bounty hunter, as Boba Fett—a clone whom Jango regarded as a son—watched in horror. Overwhelmed by the droids' superior numbers, the Jedi were cornered into the center of the Geonosian Petranaki Arena. Dooku demanded that the Jedi surrender themselves into Separatist custody, but Windu refused to allow himself and his allies to be taken as prisoners of war. Moments later, the arrival of Yoda and the clone army ultimately turned the tide and enabled the Jedi survivors to escape the arena.

     Windu's rescue party was saved from slaughter by the arrival of Yoda and the Grand Army of the Republic.  
In the aftermath of the arena skirmish, the First Battle of Geonosis officially commenced as thousands of clone troopers engaged the battle droids on the field of war. The remaining members of Windu's assault team took to the field as well, assuming command of the clones who were trained to serve the Jedi with absolute loyalty. Reporting directly to Windu, Clone Commander Ponds and five special commando units accompanied the legendary Jedi champion to the forefront of the battle. Windu kept Ponds by his side during the rest of the battle. Under the Jedi's leadership, the clone army forced the Separatists into full retreat, abandoning Geonosis to Republic occupation. Windu returned to the capital, content that the first battle resulted in a Republic victory, but was also morose over the failure to capture Dooku. By then Windu came to accept that he had been wrong in his preconception of Dooku's character; his old friend had turned to the dark side, becoming an enemy of both the Order and the Republic.

     After taking command of the clone troopers, Windu and his fellow Jedi secured the Republic's first victory in the Clone Wars.  
The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems shattered a thousand years of peace that once defined the Jedi Order's role in the galaxy. In order to preserve and defend the Galactic Republic, Windu and his fellow Jedi accepted formal command of the clone army as generals and commanders. He also learned from Kenobi about Dooku's assertion that a mysterious Sith Lord by the name of Darth Sidious had hundreds of senators under his control, but Yoda believed that the Council had no incentive to trust the word of a fallen Jedi. Windu nonetheless recommended that the Council maintain a watchful eye on the Senate, having never trusted the highly corrupt government in the first place. As the clone troopers and their Jedi leaders prepared for war, Yoda expressed his sadness to Windu and Kenobi, declaring that the shroud of darkness had descended upon the galaxy—now engulfed by the Clone Wars, the first galactic-scale conflict since the formation of the Republic.

Mission to Hissrich
Deployed with his squad

"You will lead a small unit to monitor the Separatists' and determine what their purpose is. Due to the clandestine nature of this mission and our thinly stretched resources, we cannot offer you a clone squadron for support.""The Jedi have trained our whole lives for missions like this. We will make do."
―Plo Koon and Mace Windu
During the war, Windu mainly remained stationed on Coruscant. However, he sometimes left the planet to perform special missions.

     Concerned by the Separatist activity on Hissrich, Windu investigated the planet with the help of a Jedi covert team.  
Even in the early days of the Clone Wars, the High Council saw its situation as dire. With the Separatist army establishing multiple footholds throughout the Outer Rim, Windu was concerned that it would only be a matter of time before they moved inward, annexing more star systems before ultimately reaching the galactic capital of Coruscant. Seeking to ascertain the purpose of the Separatist presence on the planet Hissrich, the Council assigned the task to Windu. However, because of the mission's covert purpose and the Republic's thinly spread resources, they were unable to provide him with a squadron of clone troopers. Windu therefore assembled a covert team of Jedi, consisting of himself along with Kit Fisto, for his skill with a lightsaber, Prosset Dibs, for his valuable insight and natural strong intuition with the Force, and Rissa Mano, for her engineering skills and aptitude for battle.
After the council meeting, Yoda sensed Windu's troubles and asked if he could help. Windu explained how he felt doubt after the death of so many Jedi on Geonosis. Yoda then reassured him that the Force will always lead them down the correct path. The Grand Master told Windu that he must not give into these thoughts. Before departing, Windu promised that he would not fail him.
In transit, Mano told Windu that her ship was heavily modified for stealth and speed, to which Windu was thankful. Fisto remarked that he would be looking forward to working on this mission, but Dibs cynically replied that war was no place for a Jedi. To this, Mace said that they were Knights and this was exactly what they were supposed to be doing. After this, Windu notified the team of the undocumented nature of the planet and told them to be wary of fauna as well as battle droids. Mace also told them of the planets near constant darkness and how it would help them in their covert cause. When the alarm for exiting hyperspace sounded, Windu ordered them to change into their mission attire to help regulate body temperature.
Windu ordered them to use the plants as cover as they headed towards the nearest droid outpost. Dibs apologized for his previous outburst on the ship and explained it for his foresight of the teachings of their order being tested. Windu replied by saying sometimes combat is necessary and that war can breed confusion.
They soon encountered a small patrol group of a few B1 Battle droids and a Octupara droid. They quickly destroyed the patrol, but were soon surrounded by the indigenous people on all sides. Unknown to the strike team, a droid officer spotted the skirmish and reported it to AD-W4, a mercenary droid hired by General Grievous to oversee the Separatist occupation of Hissrich.
After encountering members of Hissrich's indigenous population, Windu and Fisto followed them into a system of caverns and although they could not speak the aliens' language, Windu sensed that they were not hostile to the Jedi. The aliens led Windu and his team to their subterranean dwellings, at which point the Separatists attacked the Jedi after tracking their position to the alien settlement.
Windu ordered the other Jedi to protect the civilians while he fended off a group of droidekas and Single Trooper Aerial Platforms. After dispatching the droids, he was confronted by AD-W4, who engaged the Jedi Master in single combat. As they fought, both combatants criticized their opponent's motivations; Windu regarded the droid's greed as a sign of depravity, whereas AD-W4 viewed the Jedi's beliefs—in particular, their commitment to peace—as asinine. During the fighting, the Jedi realized that the droids were mining the planet for its energy resources, the amount of which could turn the war in the Separatists' favor. Ultimately, a cave in separated the team in half, with Windu and Mano on the surface, while Fisto and Dibs were trapped below.
Together, Windu and Mano defeated the droids on the surface and succeeded in destroying one of the Separatist harvesters. Afterward, they returned to their ship to regroup with Fisto and Dibs. At that point, Windu had determined that it would not be possible for his team to put an end to the Separatist operation one skirmish at a time, and therefore desired to locate the enemy's command center in order to bring the conflict on Hissrich to a swift and decisive conclusion.

Rebellion in the ranks

"I have failed you, Prosset. I was to be your shepherd, and you have strayed too far from the path. All of these bold accusations, all of these grand inquisitions. If you think you know better than I what is good for the Jedi, what is good for the galaxy—Then come! Test your resolve against mine. Let us find out who is right."
―Mace Windu, to Prosset Dibs
     Windu defeated Prosset Dibs, who was tried and found guilty of treason by the High Council.  
The Jedi's mission on Hissrich was interrupted by a fallout that occurred between two of its members. Dibs confronted Windu soon after returning to the Westwind with Fisto; his doubts about their military role and the loss of multiple natives led him to lose faith in the Order and the High Council. Shouting at his fellow Jedi Master, Dibs made several accusations against both Windu and the Council, ranging from callousness towards collateral damage to distorting the Jedi doctrine. He then physically assaulted Windu, causing the High Council member to chastise Dibs for attacking his general.
Although Windu sympathized with Dibs' frustrations, he refused to entertain his claims, dismissing all of them as "bold accusations" and "grand inquisitions." Dibs took this as mockery and ignited his lightsaber, intending to take Windu's life. Realizing that Dibs would not back down, Windu declared that he had failed in his responsibility to keep Dibs on the Jedi path. He then accepted Dibs' challenge by igniting his own lightsaber. Yet even as they fought, Windu beseeched Dibs to cease his attack by reminding him that they were essentially brothers in the sense that they were both chosen to walk the path of the Jedi. Despite Dibs' resolve to kill Windu, he was ultimately disarmed and bested by the Jedi champion.
The ordeal served to remind Windu of his mission on Mathas years prior to the Clone Wars, in which he was tempted to take the life of the false prophet Drooz. Recalling his past experience with deciding another person's fate, Windu decided to arrest Dibs and to leave his punishment to the will of the High Council. After securing Dibs on the Westwind, the remaining Jedi proceeded to bring their mission to an end by attacking the AD-W4's headquarters. Although his own faith was tested during the duel, Dibs' accusations ultimately strengthened Windu's resolve and his belief that the Jedi Order existed to protect people from the malevolence of the dark side.

Showdown on Hissrich

"My righteousness is anything but self-motivated. There is definitive right and there is wrong. Good and evil."
―Mace Windu, to AD-W4
     Windu fought AD-W4 in single combat and ultimately destroyed the droid mercenary.  
While Fisto created a distraction by confronting the battle droids, his comrades executed their respective parts of the mission, with Mano infiltrating a Separatist supply ship and Windu challenging AD-W4 to single combat. As they fought, the droid mercenary attempted to bait Windu by accusing him of hypocrisy as well as secretly enjoying his newfound authority as a general in the Grand Army of the Republic. Although it briefly overpowered the Jedi Master, Windu ultimately prevailed, using both his Force powers and lightsaber to defeat AD-W4. He also rejected its claims against him, asserting that his virtues were influenced by altruism and the concept of right versus wrong.
AD-W4 was confident that its mission was a success in spite of the Jedi's efforts to prevent the Separatists from gaining a valuable energy source that could fuel their war effort against the Republic. However, Windu had anticipated the supply ship's purpose and instructed Mano to destroy it; the young Jedi Knight succeeded in her task—destroying the ship along with its flora samples—and moved to assist Fisto against the remaining droids in accordance with Windu's orders. Having failed in its mission, AD-W4 attempted to escape by disconnecting its head from its disabled body. The effort was in vain as Windu used the Force to cause the head to explode, destroying AD-W4 and ending the Separatist operation on Hissrich.
Returning to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, Windu provided a report on the success of his team's mission to the High Council. The leaders of the Jedi Order decided to send a force of clone troopers to Hissrich, both to eliminate the remaining droids and provide aid to the planet's indigenous population. In addition to their plans for replanting and reconstruction on Hissrich, Yoda announced that they would study samples of the flora in order to learn more about its properties. The next item on their agenda was the trial of Prosset Dibs, who remained under arrest as a result of his conduct during the Hissrich operation. Dibs, who turned against his team and attacked Windu—a Jedi Master as well as a general in the Republic military—stood before the leaders of the Jedi Order accused of heresy and insubordination. He was ultimately found guilty on both charges, including treason, but although Dibs expected to be put to death, Windu implored his colleagues to be merciful.

     After the events on Hissrich, Windu confided in Mano his concern for Dibs and the future of the Jedi Order.  
Windu, who harbored his own reservations against the Jedi's new military responsibilities, sympathized with Dibs' frustrations. In Windu's view, Dibs did not deserve to be faulted for feeling anger and confusion, both of which Windu regarded as valid emotions under the circumstances of war. As such, he believed that the Jedi had a duty to help rehabilitate the members of the Order who strayed from the light. Although Dibs continued to doubt Windu's sincerity, Windu requested for the prisoner to be placed on probation, confined to work in the Jedi Archives where he hoped Dibs would reevaluate his opinions. After the trial, Windu confessed to Mano his hope for reconciliation between Dibs and the Council, having sensed that the Order would need every Jedi as they faced their greatest challenge yet—a long war filled with trials and hardships. While he continued to yearn for a quick end to the fighting, Windu felt that it was not an attainable goal at the moment. The best that the Jedi Order could do, he believed, was to keep faith in the Force and stand in defense of not only the citizens of the Republic, but all peoples of the galaxy.

Rescue of Rotta

"This is the opportunity we've been looking for. The Jedi must rescue Jabba's son.""Hmm… I don't like it—dealing with that criminal scum. This is a dark day for the Republic."
―Sheev Palpatine and Mace Windu, on a potential alliance with Jabba Desilijic Tiure
     During the Clone Wars, General Windu became a renowned warrior due to his forays onto the battlefield.  
As a senior member of the Jedi Council, Windu directed the Republic war effort from the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, often conferring with Grand Master Yoda and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine on matters of strategy and diplomacy. However, on occasion he also took to the field, commanding clone troopers and Jedi on several military campaigns with Commander Ponds as his second-in-command. Windu's exploits on the battlefield served as a reminder of his reputation as a fierce warrior and champion of the Jedi Order. He took command of the 187th Battalion and the elite 187th Legion.
During the early phase of the war, Rotta—the Huttlet son of Jabba Desilijic Tiure—was "Huttnapped" by the Separatists, who conspired to discredit the Jedi Knights in order to prevent a potential alliance between the Republic and the Hutt Clan. In response to Rotta's abduction, Jabba issued a general distress call to anyone who was willing to rescue his son. Although Palpatine was quick to use this turn of events in the Republic's favor, Windu urged the chancellor to proceed with caution, believing there was more to the Huttlet's abduction than what was apparent. He also informed the chancellor that, because of the Separatist general Grievous, Republic forces were stretched too thin to send a large number of Jedi on a rescue mission. Due to Palpatine's insistence that the Republic clone army needed to gain safe passage through the Outer Rim Hyperspace routes in Hutt Space, Windu agreed to assign the mission to Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker since both Jedi Knights were now available after liberating the planet Christophsis from Separatist occupation.

     At the chancellor's request, Windu dispatched Kenobi and Skywalker on a mission to save Jabba's son.  
Soon afterward Windu received a message from the Advanced Recon Force Scout Troopers who tracked Rotta's location to an old monastery on the planet Teth. Due to the monastery's heavy fortification, Windu instructed the troopers to stand by and await Republic reinforcements. He then reassigned three of Admiral Wurtz's cruisers to the rescue operation. In spite of Count Dooku's plot to form an alliance between the Confederacy and the Hutt Clan, Rotta was ultimately redeemed from captivity by Anakin Skywalker and his new Padawan, Ahsoka Tano. The Separatists were defeated on Teth and Jabba was made aware of Dooku's conspiracy, which in turn allowed the Republic to secure passage through the Hyperspace lanes in Hutt territory.

Liberation of Ryloth

"General Windu! Perhaps we can come to a compromise.""Not when I hold all the cards."
―Wat Tambor and Mace Windu —  Listen (file info)
     Jedi Generals Windu and Kenobi played leading roles in the Ryloth campaign.  
Following the Separatist invasion of the planet Ryloth, the Jedi generals Windu, Kenobi and Yoda asked Senator Bail Organa to negotiate with King Katuunko of Toydaria, hoping to gain his planet's support as a staging area for the delivery of relief supplies to the Twi'lek people. General Windu personally oversaw the campaign to retake the Twi'lek homeworld. In response to the Republic's imminent counterattack, Wat Tambor—foreman of the Techno Union and Separatist emir of Ryloth—ordered the Confederacy navy to form a blockade around the planet. As such, Windu entrusted Skywalker and Tano with the responsibility of breaking through the blockade in order to clear a path for the rest of the Republic invasion force. After some difficulty, Master and Padawan succeeded in their task, allowing Windu and Kenobi to commence with the landing of their ground forces on Ryloth.
In order to establish a foothold on Ryloth, Windu instructed Kenobi to lead a detachment of the 212th Attack Battalion on a mission to secure the landing area near the city of Nabat. On Tambor's orders, however, the Separatist battle droids used the local Twi'lek population as living shields to protect their proton cannons. Despite the danger that the cannons posed to the Republic Navy, Windu informed Kenobi that freeing the hostages was a mission priority. After the success of Kenobi's assignment, Windu and his forces landed on the surface of Ryloth and proceeded with the final phase of the campaign—the liberation of the planetary capital city, Lessu.
The liberation of Ryloth moved apace, but the march to the capital was perilous. After sustaining casualties and damage to his All Terrain Tactical Enforcers, Windu decided to enlist the aid of Cham Syndulla, the leader of the local resistance against Separatist occupation. Syndulla was hesitant to align his cause with that of the Republic, fearing Ryloth would only trade one oppressing force for another. Yet the suffering of his people compelled him to communicate with Ryloth's own senator, Orn Free Taa. Windu long detested politics, but was nonetheless a capable diplomat. His skills as a mediator enabled him to guide the corpulent politician and the freedom fighter to a compromise—Taa vowed that the clone army would withdraw from Ryloth after the remaining Separatists were driven away. In return, Syndulla promised to not use his popularity with the people to seize power from Ryloth's democratically-elected senator.

     After claiming victory on Ryloth, Windu attended a parade where the Twi'leks celebrated the liberation of their homeworld.  
The combined forces of Republic clone troopers and Twi'lek freedom fighters laid siege to Lessu, which Tambor was in the process of evacuating, but not without confiscating much of Ryloth's wealth. The attack on the capital was led by both Syndulla and Windu, until the latter broke off from the main fighting in order to prevent Tambor's escape. As a result of the emir's delayed departure, Tambor was left stranded on Ryloth, allowing Windu to capture him at saber-point. Several Separatist bombers made a last ditch attempt to bombard the capital, but their efforts ended in failure as Skywalker and Tano narrowly intercepted and destroyed the enemy starfighters in their respective Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptors.
With the liberation of Lessu and the capture of the Skakoan emir, the campaign concluded in victory for both the Republic and Ryloth. Many Twi'leks gathered in the capital to celebrate their renewed liberty as clone troopers and freedom fighters marched through the city
in a triumphant parade. General Windu and Commander Ponds attended the event, as did Syndulla and Senator Taa.

Saving Neesha Tor
     Windu saved the life of a Twi'lek child named Neesha Tor.  

"I don't think so. I'm fairly confident I can get you back up there. But it's probably going to hurt."
―Mace Windu, to Neesha Tor
Sometime after Ryloth campaign, Windu was stationed on Ryloth. During this time, he saved Neesha Tor—a Twi'lek orphan who was treated like street trash. Using the Force, he pulled her to safety after she fell from a cliff.

Holocron theft

"You will take us to the holocron… And you will take us now."
―Anakin Skywalker, Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi, using the Force to break Cad Bane's resolve
     Todo 360 entered the communication center where he briefly encountered several Jedi Knights, including Yoda and Windu.  
In the aftermath of the Confederate victory on the planet Felucia, Windu and the Jedi Council reprimanded Tano for her failure to immediately comply with the order to withdraw from the battle. As punishment, they temporarily reassigned her to serve as a guard in the Jedi Archives of the Temple. When Tano asked how long she would be on guard duty, Windu coldly responded by extending the punishment. Shortly afterward, Windu and Yoda discovered that the Temple had been infiltrated by thieves—unknown to the Jedi, Darth Sidious hired the bounty hunter Cad Bane for an assignment to steal one of the Order's holocrons. As Kenobi and Skywalker hunted the intruders, Bane sacrificed his droid, Todo 360, by sending it to the communication center as a bomb. Before the droid could detonate, Windu Force pushed Todo into the ventilation system where it exploded. The distraction worked to Bane's advantage, allowing the mercenary to escape the Temple with a holocron. However, Tano managed to apprehend his partner, Cato Parasitti, who revealed to Windu and the other Jedi that Bane's next target was Bolla Ropal, the keeper of the Kyber memory crystal. Windu deduced the true nature of the theft—the holocron that Bane stole could be used to access the crystal's data, which contained the names and locations of all known Force-sensitive children in the galaxy. With the future of the Jedi Order in jeopardy, the Council dispatched Kenobi to hunt Bane while Skywalker and Tano traveled to the Devaron system to find Ropal.
Skywalker and Tano were unsuccessful in their mission to thwart Bane's theft of the crystal. Knowing that the bounty hunter's next move was to abduct the Force-sensitive children, the Jedi switched to a new tactic—meditation. Windu, Yoda, Kenobi and Skywalker searched through the Force, seeking to identify the children who were in immediate danger from Bane. The Force guided the Jedi to the planets Rodia and Naboo. Kenobi failed to prevent the abduction of the Rodian infant Wee Dunn, however the Gungan child Roo-Roo Page was saved, and Bane was taken into Jedi custody by Skywalker and Tano. Windu personally conducted Bane's interrogation, although initially without success as he sensed that the mercenary's fear of his client outweighed his fear of the Jedi Order. At Tano's suggestion, Windu, Kenobi and Skywalker simultaneously performed the mind trick technique on Bane. Despite the possibility of permanently damaging Bane's mind in the process, the Jedi felt that he had given them no other recourse except to force his compliance for the sake of the Order's future. The experience proved too painful for Bane, who finally relented to the Jedi's demands.

     Bane led Windu and Kenobi to the holocron and a trap.  
Bane brought Windu, Kenobi, and Clone Commander CC-2224 to Black Stall Station where the holocron was kept. The Jedi inadvertently trigger the station's defense turrets, however, allowing Bane to leave the space station in an escape pod while Windu and Kenobi defended themselves. Both Jedi Masters ultimately survived the trap and escaped with the holocron just prior to the station's destruction. Simultaneously, Skywalker and Tano tracked the missing infants to the planet Mustafar and were able to rescue them all before they could be used in the schemes of the Dark Lord of the Sith.

Battle of Malastare

"I have a bad feeling about this."
―Mace Windu
     Seeking access to Malastarian fuel, the Republic dispatched an army led by Generals Windu and Skywalker to the Dug homeworld.  
When the Separatists invaded the planet Malastare, homeworld of the Dug species, Windu again took to the field commanding Republic forces with the assistance of Commander Ponds and General Skywalker. Preventing the Separatist conquest of Malastare was not their only objective; the Republic sought to gain access to Malastarian fuel. Doge Nakha Urus, leader of Malastare, agreed to sign a treaty of trade between the Republic and Malastare, provided that the Separatists were first driven off of Malastarian soil by Windu's forces. However, the Republic soon found itself heavily outnumbered upon confronting the Separatist invasion force on the open field of battle.
Despite this, the Republic had a backup plan—the electro-proton bomb, developed by the Republic scientist Doctor Sionver Boll, was designed to neutralize a specific target: the Separatist battle droids. The doctor assured Windu and Chancellor Palpatine—who communicated with Republic forces via hologram—that the bomb posed no threat to organic-based units, such as clone troopers and the Malastarian Dugs. The plan met with the Chancellor's approval, but did little to assuage Windu's concerns. Although the Jedi Master proposed to seek an alternative solution, the bomb's use was authorized by Palpatine and Urus. Upon detonation, the immediate blast incinerated the droids that were closest to the explosion. The subsequent discharge of EMP radiation caused the remaining the droids to shut down, along with every form of machinery within proximity of the overall blast.

     Windu and his forces discovered the Zillo Beast shortly after the Battle of Malastare.  
Though the experimental bomb succeeded in neutralizing the entire Separatist invasion force in one fell swoop, the surface began to collapse as a result of the explosion, creating a massive sinkhole that began at ground zero and expanded in every direction. A rescue operation soon commenced in order to search for the Republic troops who fell into the sinkhole. After losing communication with the rescue party, Windu and Ponds led a team to ascertain the fate of the survivors. Their investigation ultimately led them to discovering the Zillo Beast—an ancient creature native to Malastare, its species was long believed to be extinct by the Dug population. The beast, awoken by the bomb, chased after Windu and his troops until Skywalker created a distraction by flying maneuvers around it in his Jedi starfighter.
After escaping from the sinkhole, Windu regrouped with Skywalker and Urus in order to develop a strategy to neutralize the Zillo Beast. The Malastarian doge was adamant that the creature (which he regarded as a "dangerous bloodthirsty monster") should be destroyed—a plan which Palpatine supported in order to ensure the Dugs' cooperation with the Republic's needs for Malastare's fuel. Windu strongly objected on the ground of Jedi morality, however. Due to the possibility that the beast could be the last of its species, the Jedi Master was determined to preserve its life. His value for life ultimately conflicted with Urus' insistence on the creature's extermination. Urus went ahead with his plan upon discovering the harmful effects that Malastarian gas had on the Zillo Beast, prompting Windu to intercede in defense of the creature's life by threatening the doge with his lightsaber.
The situation was ultimately resolved when a group of Republic RX-200 Falchion-class assault tanks concentrated their fire on the Zillo Beast and, as a result, incapacitated the creature. The Dugs believed that the beast was finally dead when in fact the stun cannons merely rendered it unconscious—long enough for Republic forces to transport the Zillo Beast to Coruscant for scientific research. Though the Dug Council formally ratified Malastare's treaty with the Republic, Windu made no effort to conceal his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to bring the dangerous beast to the galactic capital—a move that the Jedi Master regarded as folly on the Chancellor's part.

Zillo Beast incident

"With respect, Chancellor, I believe this creature could pose any number of dangers. Bringing it here to Coruscant is a mistake."
―Mace Windu, to Sheev Palpatine
     Windu, the Jedi and their clone troopers were forced to destroy the Zillo Beast during its rampage on Coruscant.  
Windu returned to Coruscant with the sedated Zillo Beast in tow. As the clone army transported the beast to the Republic Science and Technical Center, Windu again expressed his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to move a dangerous creature to the capital. By then, however, it was clear to him that the Chancellor would not listen to the Jedi Master's counsel on this matter. Palpatine claimed that the research conducted on the Zillo Beast would be beneficial to the Republic war effort, although his reassurance did little to alleviate Windu's concerns about the safety of Coruscant. At Kenobi's suggestion, the Jedi turned to Senator Padmé Amidala in the hopes that she would have more success in reasoning with the Chancellor.
Shortly after its arrival, however, the Zillo Beast escaped from its confinement and proceeded to rampage through the cityscape of the galactic capital. Windu and the other Jedi mobilized Republic forces in order to prevent the beast from causing more damage and casualties on Coruscant. Palpatine, who had ordered the beast's destruction, was caught in its path while attempting to evacuate the Senate Office Building. Windu and the Jedi consequently focused their efforts on saving the Chancellor's life, which ultimately led to the death of the Zillo Beast when Palpatine ordered the Republic gunships to fire Malastarian gas bombs on it.

Senate conspiracy

"We chose Senator Amidala because she and Clovis entered the Senate in the same year. They served on the same committees. They were… good friends."
―Mace Windu, to Anakin Skywalker
During the Clone Wars, Senator Rush Clovis of the planet Scipio became a suspected traitor to the Republic. Due to the lack of proof, however, Windu and the Jedi Council instructed Skywalker to recruit Senator Amidala as a spy, believing that their former relationship would enable the Naboo politician to gain the alleged traitor's confidence. Ultimately, the Council was right to be suspicious of Clovis as Amidala discovered proof that her colleague had secretly dealt with the Separatists on behalf of the InterGalactic Banking Clan while pretending to be a Republic loyalist.

Battle of Dantooine

"I've just received a distress signal from our forces on Dantooine. Master Windu's defenses held, but at a great cost to his men. They need medical supplies immediately."
―Ki-Adi-Mundi
On and off since the early weeks of the Clone War, Windu personally oversaw the defense of Dantooine against oppositional forces that sought to wrest control of the planet from the Republic. The Jedi Master's forces prevented the fall of Dantooine to enemy control, but also sustained a large number of casualties in the process. After the battle Windu sent a distress signal, which Ki-Adi-Mundi received shortly after the Republic's reconquest of Geonosis, informing the Jedi of his victory while simultaneously requesting medical supplies for his injured soldiers.

Mission to Ridlay
     General Windu arrived on Ridlay with Commander Ponds and the clone troopers of Lightning Squadron.  
Windu along with Commander Ponds and Lightning Squadron, were sent to investigate a communication blackout on Ridlay. There, they found a village abandoned and only one person, Agon. He claimed that ghost were coming toward the. Windu and the squadron then joined the villagers in their shelter. According to the villagers, the ghosts come every fifty years during Ridlay's eclipse for a celebration. However, the ghosts had driven them from their home. Windu believed there was something else with the ghosts and asked Agon to lead him to the Ascension Well. Windu and the squadron realized that ghosts were conflicted due to the presence of the Separatist being led by Dooku.
Windu fought Dooku until he Force pushed him. Dooku left their fight and ordered his battle droids to finish Windu and his forces off. Windu ordered Ponds and Lightning Squadron to retreat while he would finish off the droids. Windu then saved Agon from a ghost and was able to clear their minds of Dooku's poison. Windu and Agon watched as the ghosts returned to normal and left as the eclipse ended

Assassination attempt

"Boba was on Geonosis when his father died. He watched as I killed him.""That would complicate things.""Indeed."
―Mace Windu and Anakin Skywalker
     Trapped aboard the wreck of the Endurance, Windu and Skywalker were forced to wait for R2-D2 to return with help.  
As the war progressed, Boba Fett conspired to assassinate Windu out of vengeance for the death of father, the clone template Jango Fett. Aided by the bounty hunters Aurra Sing, Bossk, and Castas, Fett infiltrated a squad of clone cadets during a tour of Windu's starship, the Venator-class Star Destroyer Endurance. Initially, Fett intended to kill Windu by placing an explosive device in the latter's quarters. However, the Jedi Master was called away mere seconds before the bomb was triggered, resulting in the death of a clone trooper. As the Endurance crew searched the vessel for Windu's would-be assassin, the rogue clone amended his plan by sabotaging the Star Destroyer's reactor core, causing the starship to crash into the surface of the planet Vanqor. After escaping the doomed vessel, Windu and Skywalker's search for survivors led them to an escape pod that contained the cadets with the exception of Fett, whom Sing retrieved in Slave I prior to the Jedi's arrival.
In the aftermath of the destruction of the Endurance, Windu and Skywalker traveled to the crash site hoping to find survivors—including Admiral Kilian and CT-411, both of whom opted to remain with the ship as it went down. During the search, Windu chastised Skywalker for encouraging individuality in his droid, the astromech unit R2-D2. Before long, the Jedi generals discovered several dead clones along with signs that they had survived the crash only to be executed shortly after. On the bridge Skywalker discerned a Mandalorian helmet in the rubble. At that moment, Windu remembered both Jango and Boba Fett, leading the Jedi Master to realize that it was the latter who attempted to assassinate him. Although Windu was unable to prevent Skywalker from triggering the bomb within the helmet, he succeeded in saving the younger Jedi's life by pulling him away from the explosion through the Force. The blast caused even more damage to bridge, however, leaving both men trapped and injured under a large pile of debris. Unable to escape on their own, Skywalker instructed R2-D2 to relay their situation to the Jedi Temple. Windu, on the other hand, expressed little faith in the droid's ability to succeed.
As they lay trapped and waiting for the droid to return with help, Windu began to reflect on his actions at the Battle of Geonosis, particularly his victory over Jango Fett and how Boba witnessed his father's death at Windu's hand. Ultimately, Skywalker's droid returned with a rescue party—consisting of Plo Koon, Ahsoka Tano, and the clone troopers of Wolfpack—and managed to save both Jedi just prior to the full collapse of the Endurance bridge. Before returning to Coruscant, Windu praised R2-D2 for saving his life, much to Skywalker's surprise.

     Windu had no intention of seeking retribution for the attempt on his life—until he learned that Boba Fett's allies had taken hostages to force the Jedi's hand.  
After returning to the Republic capital, Windu and Skywalker recuperated at the Jedi Temple where they initially argued over their next course of action in light of Fett's attempt on their lives. Although Skywalker insisted that the Jedi should hunt the renegade clone and bring him to justice, Windu was content to let the matter go, preferring to not become entangled in a vendetta as Fett was against him. A transmission from Aurra Sing, who revealed the hostages she took from the Endurance, changed the Jedi Master's mind. Windu decided to confront Fett and his accomplices upon witnessing Sing's execution of CT-411, but due to his injuries he allowed Koon and Tano to go in his stead. Their mission was a success, resulting in Fett's arrest and the rescue of the remaining hostages. On Coruscant, Windu confronted Fett in person, who regretted his actions on the Endurance, but refused to forgive the Jedi for Jango's death. The unrepentant clone was then sent to prison by Windu.[source?]

New threats and an ongoing war
Farr's funeral and the brother of Maul
Following Fett's arrest, Windu attended the funeral of the Rodian senator Onaconda Farr, who was assassinated by his personal aide, Lolo Purs.
Later in the war, the Jedi Council received a holorecording of the Devaron massacre. Windu and Kenobi observed the footage which revealed the Zabrak warrior Savage Opress whom Kenobi mistook for Darth Maul. Windu informed his colleague that the Zabrak in the recording was not the Sith Lord he fought on Naboo. He further explained that the Zabrak and Maul were Dathomirians of Dathomir, not Iridonia as they previously believed in Maul's case.

Kidnapping of the Chancellor

"Tell me about my target.""His name is Moralo Eval. Works directly for Count Dooku. Rumor is their plot will be hatched in three revolutions at the festival on Naboo."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Mace Windu
     With Kenobi's aid, Windu and Skywalker intercepted the bounty hunters before they could escape with their valuable hostage.  
When rumors reached the Council that the bounty hunter Moralo Eval was planning to abduct Chancellor Palpatine despite his incarceration at the Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center, Windu, Yoda, and Kenobi conceived a plan for Kenobi to infiltrate Eval's operation by impersonating the bounty hunter Rako Hardeen. Windu arranged for Skywalker to arrest Kenobi, posing as Hardeen, and have sent to prison. He was then informed that fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane was planning to free Eval. Following Eval, Bane and Kenobi's escape from the detention center, Windu and Yoda rescinded the bounty to ensure that they would continue on their way to Serenno where Count Dooku awaited their arrival.
While Kenobi continued to impersonate Hardeen, Windu accompanied the Supreme Chancellor to his homeworld of Naboo for the Festival of Light. The bounty hunters executed their plan during the ceremony, disabling the ray shield and kidnapping Palpatine. Through Kenobi's intervention, however, Windu and Skywalker were able to apprehend Bane and Eval before they could escape with their prisoner.

Attack on the Temple

"It is the Council's opinion that Padawan Ahsoka Tano has committed sedition against the Republic, and thus she will be expelled from the Jedi Order."
―Mace Windu, pronouncing the Council's decision to expel Ahsoka Tano
     Windu and the High Council summoned Padawan Tano to the Chamber of Judgment and found her guilty of treason.  
Following the a terrorist explosion in a hangar of the Jedi Temple, the Council recalled Skywalker and his apprentice to Coruscant. After briefing the two Jedi on the situation, Windu and Yoda assigned them to oversee the Jedi Order's internal investigation. In addition, they suspected that the attack was caused by a rogue Jedi. As neither Skywalker or Tano were present at the time of the bombing, Windu and the Grand Master considered them above suspicion and therefore suited to the task. During the investigation, Skywalker and Tano reported directly to Windu, who informed them that a swift conclusion to the case was imperative as rumors began to circulate within the Senate that the military police could become involved. With the arrest of Letta Turmond, Windu and Yoda concluded that the radical Coruscanti was the main culprit in the bombing of the Temple hangar. While there was no indication at the time of a Jedi's involvement, the incident served to fuel anti-Jedi sentiment among the Republic citizenry—an outcome that concerned Windu.
In the aftermath of Turmond's arrest, Windu attended a funeral ceremony to honor the six Jedi Knights who were killed in the hangar blast. Shortly thereafter, Skywalker's Padawan came under suspicion of being the true mastermind behind the bombing after Turmond was Force-choked to death in her presence. Admiral Wilhuff Tarkin contacted the Council and claimed that Tano had not only murdered Turmond, but also several clone troopers during her escape from the Republic Center for Military Operations. The Council endeavored to apprehend the fugitive Padawan, although Windu was concerned by Yoda's decision to send Skywalker after his own apprentice, believing that his emotional connection to Tano would complicate the mission.
The hunt for Tano led to her capture and subsequent confinement in the Jedi Temple. As the Council debated on what to do with her, Tarkin contacted them on the Senate's behalf, imploring the Jedi leadership to expel Tano and surrender her to military custody. Windu was troubled by the Council's options in the matter—to either stand by Tano, as Kenobi insisted; or remove her from the ranks of the Order as the Senate commanded. Ultimately, Windu concurred with Tarkin on the grounds that failing to submit Tano for trial could be regarded as an act of opposition to the Senate. At Yoda's behest, the young Padawan was taken to the Chamber of Judgment, where five members of the Council, including Windu, reviewed the charges against her and asked for her plea. Tano pleaded innocent and insisted that the Council was being deceived; but as she was unable to confirm the identity of the true perpetrator, Windu announced the Council's decision to revoke Tano's Jedi status and hand her over to the military custody of the Republic.

     Although Windu proclaimed Tano a greater Jedi because of her ordeal, the former Padawan chose to walk away from the Jedi Order.  
After the expulsion was completed, Windu attended Tano's military trial alongside several other members of the Council. Before the verdict could be read, however, Skywalker burst in and revealed the real traitor, Barriss Offee, who confessed to the crimes that Tano had been accused of and scathingly claimed that the Jedi were the ones responsible for the Clone War.
Due to this revelation, Windu and the Council attempted to make amends with Tano. In addition to a personal apology from Skywalker, Plo Koon informed Tano that she had the Council's most humble apologies. Saesee Tiin, Mundi, and Windu all observed Tano's ordeal as a "great trial" in her training, and stated that she had become a greater Jedi than she would have been otherwise. But while Windu and his colleagues were prepared to accept her back into the Order with a promotion to the rank of Jedi Knight, Tano felt betrayed and refused the offer, instead choosing to leave the Temple to search for a new path.

Mission to Bardotta

"Your power is no match for my magics.""Magic is only an illusion."
―Talzin and Mace Windu
     Windu fought Mother Talzin on Zardossa Stix.  
Windu later accompanied Representative Jar Jar Binks to assist the Bardottan Queen Julia in finding the disappearing Dagoyan Masters. However, Windu's presence was not welcome by the Queen nor the Bardottans, due to a long-standing mistrust of the Jedi by the Dagoyans. Windu also sensed that the Force was out of balance on Bardotta. However, when the queen disappeared, Windu assisted the Bardottans and Binks in their search in the catacombs belonging to the Frangawl Cult. When Binks disappeared, Windu tracked him down and rescued Binks from being sacrificed. However, the Frangawl cult leader escaped with queen off-world. Binks promised the Bahk-tov Council that they would find the queen before the prophecy came to be.
Windu learned from Binks that the Frangawl cult was extracting the living force from Dagoyan masters, and putting it into a sphere. He surmised that they would do same to Queen Julia. Windu then sensed the orb on Zardossa Stix where Windu sensed her in a city market square. Windu fought with several of the cultists and saved Binks from capture, then stunning one Gundark and killing another. Windu questioned the Gundarks' trainer, who told them that the mysterious "Great Mother" would deal with him. Windu and Binks took an eopie and a dalgo to help in their search, traveling to the Zardossan temple. However, Windu and Binks were then confronted by stone guardians, yet Windu was able to defeat them. He soon confronted the Great Mother, who revealed herself to be the Nightsister Mother Talzin. With Binks' help, Windu was able to prevent Talzin from absorbing the sphere's power and watched as she disappeared.

The truth about the clone army

"Our enemy created an army for us.""If this was known, public confidence in the war effort, the Jedi, and the Republic would vanish. There would be mass chaos."
―Yoda and Mace Windu
     While investigating the death of Sifo-Dyas, the High Council discovered that the Sith were responsible for the creation of the clone army.  
Responding to a mysterious distress call, Plo Koon discovered a crashed Jedi shuttle, and found the lightsaber of Sifo-Dyas in the wreckage to the surprise of the High Council. Sifo-Dyas' lightsaber had been lost since his death a decade prior to the Clone Wars; Skywalker and Kenobi were sent to investigate, which led them to discover that Sifo-Dyas had, in fact, been murdered by Pyke criminals rather than the native Felucians he had been sent to negotiate with, as the Council had previously assumed. Furthermore, they learned that the Pykes had been acting on orders from Count Dooku. A confrontation between Dooku and the Jedi on the Oba Diah moon led the Order to discover that Dooku was the mysterious Tyranus who hired Jango Fett as the clone template, making him responsible for the clone army's creation.
The High Council now knew that the Sith were involved in the development of clone troopers. However, they did not understand why their own enemy would provide them with the means to defend the Republic. Windu noted with caution that such a revelation could easily destroy public confidence in the Jedi, the Republic and the war effort. The conspiracy was therefore classified as confidential information; Yoda himself ordered his colleagues to not speak of their discovery to anyone, including Chancellor Palpatine. He also dismissed any doubts concerning the clone troopers, citing their valiant service and loyalty to the Jedi. Windu was uncertain about Yoda's decision, but the Grand Master assured him that it was the only feasible option available to the Jedi Order given the circumstances.

Yoda's mission

"There is great turmoil within Master Yoda.""Yes, we all sensed it.""For something to affect Yoda this deeply concerns me… We must keep an eye on our old friend.""The war has taxed all of us to our limit. I suppose we're just surprised Master Yoda has one.""I hope it's that simple, but I feel the shadow of something greater on our horizon."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Mace Windu, discussing their concern for Yoda
     Windu and his fellow Council members became concerned about Yoda, who claimed to hear the voice of the deceased Qui-Gon Jinn.  
Not long afterwards, Yoda started behaving strangely, becoming noticeably distracted and thoughtful during meetings. This surprised and concerned Windu, who sensed great turmoil within Yoda. He voiced his concerns to Obi-Wan Kenobi in a private discussion, and they resolved to keep a closer watch on their old friend. Later, a noticeably uncertain Yoda revealed that he had spoken with the deceased Qui-Gon Jinn. However, everything the Jedi knew about the Force suggested that the ability to retain one's individuality after death was impossible, so the reactions from the Council ranged from concern to skepticism and suspicion. Though they meditated with Yoda for a whole day, they were unable to sense anything. After the failed meditation, Ki-Adi-Mundi suggested that what Yoda was sensing could be a deception by the Sith. Kenobi refused to believe that Yoda could be susceptible to such manipulation, but Windu replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Yoda was not beyond the corruption of the dark side. The ancient Jedi master agreed and submitted himself to medical examination.
Windu, Kenobi and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Yoda was in perfect mental health, even though he was approaching the nine hundredth year of his life. Mundi, who was particularly skeptical of Yoda's claims, suggested the Dark Lord of the Sith could be using Yoda's connection to Dooku to manipulate him, but Kenobi vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Yoda at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema suggested a deprivation ritual for Yoda to reach the source of the voice. During the procedure, Kenobi, Skywalker, Mundi, and Plo Koon watched over the small Jedi. Yoda managed to hear Jinn's instruction to go to the Dagobah system before Kenobi noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test.

     Though clouded by the dark side, Yoda beheld a vision of the fate of Mace Windu and the other members of the Jedi Order.  
When Windu asked about the procedure, Kenobi told him that Yoda was sure he had contacted the dead. Mundi asserted that Yoda's claim was impossible, and again voiced his suspicion that Yoda was under attack by the Sith. More concerned than ever, Windu ordered temple guards to monitor all of Yoda's moves. However, the diminutive Jedi Master soon managed to escape with Skywalker's help and R2-D2's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to the mysterious world of Dagobah as well as the ancient Sith homeworld of Moraband. Immediately after Yoda's escape, a furious Windu confronted Skywalker, but the younger Jedi countered that, for once, none of what had occurred had been his idea. After arriving on Dagobah, Yoda was led to the Cave of Evil by the disembodied voice of Jinn. The cave was strong with the dark side, causing Yoda to foresee clouded visions of the deaths of Windu and other members of the Jedi Order, followed by the ascent of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious.
On Yoda's return to Coruscant, Windu and Kenobi greeted him, and Windu stated that the High Council was eager to hear Yoda's report, but the old Jedi master claimed that there was not much to discuss. When Windu asked him if his journey had given him insight on how to win the war, Yoda told them that he was no longer certain that the Jedi could win the Clone Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Jedi would ultimately triumph over the Sith.

The Dooku assassination attempt

"Isn't protecting the innocent the very definition of what it means to be a Jedi? We are failing the Republic and its citizens. We must stop this—now."
―Mace Windu, to the Jedi High Council
     Distressed by the growing number of casualties, the High Council sent Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress to assassinate Count Dooku.  
Upon witnessing a devastating Separatist attack on Mahranee, as well as the killing of many Mahran refugees, Mace Windu urged the Jedi Council to consider his proposal to assassinate Count Dooku. At first, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda opposed this course action, believing that such measures could draw them closer to the dark side, but Windu countered their argument by reminding them of Dooku's significance to the Separatist war effort. He also warned that unless the Jedi learned to adapt, the war and its devastating effect on the galaxy could continue indefinitely. Anakin Skywalker, who had been invited by Kenobi to attend the Council's meeting, agreed with Windu.
Windu and Skywalker also pointed to the war's growing number of civilian casualties, noting that many more lives would be lost as long as the conflict continued. Having considered Windu's words, including his stance on the Jedi Order's responsibility to protect the innocent, the Republic and its citizens, the Council agreed to sanction the plan. At Kenobi's suggestion, they assigned the mission to Jedi Master Quinlan Vos, due to his experience with covert operations. Vos, in turn recruited Dooku's former apprentice, Asajj Ventress. However, after becoming lovers Ventress convinced Vos to train in the ways of the dark side in order to defeat Dooku.
The mission ended in failure, as Dooku was able to defeat both Force-sensitive assassins, resulting in Vos' capture on Raxus Secundus. When Ventress reported directly to the Jedi Council, Windu greeted her with an arrest warrant, but was persuaded by Kenobi and Yoda to hear her account of the mission. He was particularly displeased to learn that Ventress exposed Vos to the dark side, but the former Separatist retorted by reminding Windu that he and the Council had assigned Vos the mission in the first place. When the Council decided to rescue Vos, Windu became exasperated by their decision to send Ventress on the mission, but reluctantly agreed to follow Yoda's plan.
Although the rescue mission was a success, Windu and the Council soon grew suspicious of Vos' allegiance. After definitively concluding that Vos had secretly joined Dooku, and having considered the repercussions that could result from the fall of a Jedi Master of Vos' stature, Windu proposed that the Council consider the possibility of executing him as punishment for treason. Most of the Council was supportive of this idea, given the Order's history with other Jedi who turned to the dark side such as Barriss Offee, Pong Krell, and especially Dooku, but Kenobi persuaded them to give Vos the chance to reaffirm his commitment to the Jedi and the Republic by making another attempt on the Count's life. In the event that Vos failed to assassinate Dooku, Kenobi and Skywalker were under orders from Windu to execute Vos.
Following the second battle of Christophsis, the Council once again met to discuss the fate of Quinlan Vos, who renounced the dark side after Ventress seemingly died while defending him from Dooku. At the same time, Windu spoke well of Ventress, commending her decision to sacrifice her life for another. Kenobi, however, felt that he and the Council did not understand the true depths of her sacrifice. Despite their disagreement on the use of assassination, as well as the circumstances surrounding Vos' temporary turn to the dark side, the Council agreed to give him the chance to regain their trust by atoning for his actions.

Tracking Maul

"Stand down in the name of the Republic… This has gone far enough, Dooku."
―Mace Windu, to Maul and Count Dooku
     Windu oversaw the hunt for Maul, believing that his capture could help to end the Clone Wars.  
In the aftermath of a battle between the Separatists and Shadow Collective, Chancellor Palpatine informed Windu that Count Dooku and Maul were seen near Ord Mantell. Acting on the Chancellor's information, Windu led a force of clone troopers—alongside fellow generals Kenobi, Tiplee, and Aayla Secura—to the battle site in the hopes of ending the war by capturing both Sith. After investigating the area, they found the helmet of a Mandalorian super commando which led Windu to confirm that the alliance between Prime Minister Almec's government and the criminal underworld remained intact. Following this, the Jedi tracked Maul to Vizsla Keep 09 and proceeded with a direct assault on the Mandalorian outpost. During the attack, Windu and Secura dueled with Maul while Dooku fought Kenobi and Tiplee, who was ultimately slain by the former Jedi Master.
Despite their efforts, both Sith Lords were able to escape from the outpost with the support of Maul's commandos. In the aftermath of the battle, Windu reported to the Chancellor and conveyed his suspicion that Dooku and Maul were master and apprentice—a theory which led him to believe that Dooku may have been the second Sith that the Jedi had been searching for since the Naboo crisis.

Anaxes

"My name is General Mace Windu of the Jedi Order. At this point of the Clone War, I have dismantled and destroyed over 100,000 of you type one battle droids. I'm giving you an opportunity to peacefully lay down your weapons, so that you may be reprogrammed to serve a better purpose than spreading the mindless violence and chaos which you have inflicted upon the galaxy."
―Mace Windu, to an army of battle droids
     Windu led his clone troopers into battle on Anaxes.  
Later in the war, Windu led the 187th Battalion along with Skywalker and the 501st Legion to the planet Anaxes which was under attack by Admiral Trench. The Separatists had gained the upper hand in the battle despite weeks of battle. At the Republic base, Windu conferred with Skywalker after the droids had over run their main production unit which indicated them losing. 501st Legion Captain Rex and 212th Attack Battalion Commander Cody arrived, and Rex shared his theory that the droids had learned his personal strategies. Windu allowed them to take a small squad of troopers to go behind enemy lines to infiltrate the Cyber Center to learn more.
Unknown to Windu and Skywalker, as Rex felt they may believe he was crazy for thinking it, Rex also felt that ARC trooper CT-1409 "Echo," who was thought to have been killed during the Battle of Lola Sayu, was still alive, as the strategies used by himself and the Separatists were battle plans Rex had made with the trooper. Ultimately, however, Rex was correct, and Echo was rescued from Skako Minor. Following this, Windu debriefed Kenobi, Skywalker, Rex and Jesse on his plan to retake the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Windu along with Kenobi, lead the assault along with the 501st Legion, 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and 212th Attack Battalion attacking the complex. The battle ended with all other fronts falling to the Republic, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. Windu assisted with deactivating the bomb and managed to save Anaxes. Following the victory, Windu commended Rex, Clone Force 99 and Echo for their efforts during the battle, but Echo and the commandos left before the Republic's medal ceremony.

Last days of the war
Windu kept a close eye on the recovery of Billaba, following her disastrous defeat at the Battle of Haruun Kal. When she finally emerged from a bacta tank, Windu gently chided her for "being glib" and expressed to Yoda his concerns about her mental health, suggesting a full fitness assessment. Windu, along with Kenobi, then observed the initiate trials of Caleb Dume, Tai Uzuma, and Sammo Quid as well as Billaba's assessments. Windu congratulated her on her performance, as the Council accepted her back.
Shortly after, Windu and Kenobi showed up to provide aid to Billaba and Dume, following an attack on the Temple. He also assigned Billaba and her battalion a new mission to Mygeeto.

Shattered trust

"I sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the Force surrounds the Chancellor."
―Mace Windu, expressing his concern for the future of the Order
     Windu confronted Palpatine upon discovering his true identity as Darth Sidious, the Sith Lord responsible for the Clone Wars.  
Following the Battle of Coruscant, Windu was disturbed by Chancellor Palpatine's decision to appoint Anakin Skywalker as his representative on the Jedi High Council. Though the Council obliged the Chancellor, hoping to use the young Jedi as a spy against him, Windu warned his colleagues that it was dangerous to pair Skywalker with Palpatine. Skywalker reacted with anger to the Council's decision to withhold the status of Jedi Master from him, but was quickly put in his place by Windu. At this time, the Council grew doubtful that Palpatine would surrender his wartime powers. As such, Windu agreed that the Chancellor would have to be removed by force and further added that the Council would have to take control of the Senate in order to maintain peace during the transitional period. Shortly after, Ahsoka Tano, alongside the recently-promoted Commander Rex, reported a successful capture of Maul during the Siege of Mandalore. Tano requested to speak with Skywalker, but was refused due to Skywalker's task with the Chancellor. Upon learning that Kenobi had located and engaged General Grievous, Tano believed that the war could be over soon, but Windu noted that the war's conclusion depended on Palpatine. When Tano questioned what he meant, Windu declined to discuss matters further with a citizen, stating that it was the business of the High Council. Tano responded that she understood, and Windu gave Tano a final nod before ending his transmission.

Duel with Darth Sidious

"I am going to end this once and for all!""You can't! He must stand trial!""He has control of the Senate and the courts! He's too dangerous to be left alive!"
―Mace Windu and Anakin Skywalker, before the latter betrays the former
With the death of General Grievous during the Battle of Utapau, Windu was determined to see the Senate restored to its former position prior to the Clone Wars. By then, however, Skywalker revealed to Windu that Sheev Palpatine was in fact Darth Sidious, the mastermind behind the war and the second Sith that the Jedi had been searching for since the Naboo crisis. Realizing the Jedi had been deceived and knowing the the future of the Jedi Order was in grave danger, Windu and three other Jedi Masters—Agen Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto—raced to Palpatine's office and attempted to arrest the Supreme Chancellor. Their confrontation led to a lightsaber duel in which Sidious killed the latter three with ease.

     Windu was electrocuted by Darth Sidious before being defenestrated  
Despite the loss of his comrades, Windu continued to fight and ultimately prevailed in the duel, disarming the Sith Lord in the process. Skywalker, who had followed Windu despite the latter's orders to remain in the Temple, beseeched the Jedi Master to spare the Chancellor's life, believing Sidious had the power to save Padmé Amidala from death. Windu, whose original goal was to put the Chancellor on trial, concluded that Sidious was too dangerous to be left alive due to his control over the Senate and the courts. But before Windu could deliver the killing strike, Skywalker betrayed Windu by severing his right hand, enabling Sidious to unleash a torrent of Force lightning that sent the Jedi Order's great champion plummeting to his death.

Legacy
Fall of the Jedi

"Every single Jedi, including your friend, Obi-Wan Kenobi, is now an enemy of the Republic.""I understand."
―Darth Sidious and Darth Vader
While Skywalker was horrified over causing Windu's death, he realized that there was no turning back, which caused him to turn to the dark side and become Sidious' apprentice, thereby betraying the Jedi. Sidious used Windu's attempt on his life to brand the Jedi as traitors. After ordering Skywalker, who became the Sith Lord Darth Vader, to lead the attack on the Jedi Temple, wipe out the separatists and shut down the battle droids, Sidious brainwashed most of the clone troopers into turning on the Jedi by ordering them to execute Order 66, ultimately leading to the downfall and near destruction of the Jedi Order.

Age of the Empire

"Master Windu spoke highly of your heroics at the Battle of Lessu.""Ah. Mace Windu. Outnumbered 100 to one, we charged across Lessu's energy bridge to certain doom. We would not be stopped. They named that attack in songs, 'The Hammer of Ryloth.'"
―Kanan Jarrus and Cham Syndulla
     Despite Imperial propaganda, the Twi'leks regarded Windu as a hero for his part in the liberation of Ryloth.  
Shortly after the Battle of Fortress Vader, Vader entered a portal constructed by Darth Momin to resurrect his wife, Padmé Amidala. While walking through visions, he encountered Windu along with many Jedi with their lightsabers ready to battle him. However, Vader destroyed all of the illusions, cutting off Windu's hand and then slashing his throat as the words "Let the past die" resounded in his mind.
The name of Mace Windu was later reviled by those who believed the line of the Galactic Empire. The Empire taught in their history books that Windu was the leader of a "criminal gang" that interfered with a legal execution taking place on Geonosis, thus sparking the Clone Wars. However, Windu's reputation was not completely tarnished by Imperial propaganda. During the Imperial Era, the people of Ryloth still remembered his exploits and heroic deeds in the Battle of Lessu, and ultimately immortalized his name along with Cham Syndulla's through songs dedicated to their victory.
Windu was also remembered by Obi-Wan Kenobi, his colleague on the High Council, who ascended to the Cosmic Force as a Force spirit during the Galactic Civil War. His final apprentice, Luke Skywalker endeavored to become a Jedi Knight, but risked a confrontation with Darth Vader—unaware at the time of his family lineage as the Dark Lord's son—before his Jedi training was finished. Skywalker's decision left Kenobi questioning if the young Jedi apprentice was their last hope and heard the voice of Windu along with other Jedi who fell with the Order in his question.

Luke Skywalker's judgment

"He remained suspicious of the motives of those in political power, an instinct that proved well-founded when Supreme Chancellor Palpatine was revealed to be the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. Master Windu led a group of Jedi Masters to arrest the corrupt leader, and had my father not betrayed him, he might have bested the Dark Lord in combat."
―Luke Skywalker
     Mace Windu was remembered as a respected and valiant Jedi Master by Luke Skywalker, the son of Anakin Skywalker.  
With the fall of the Empire and the rise of the New Republic, an effort to restore the Jedi Order was undertaken by Luke Skywalker, whose research uncovered much of the Order's history along with the lives of notable Jedi Masters such as Windu. Skywalker learned of Windu's reputation as a respected Jedi Master who served in the ranks of the Jedi High Council during the Order's final years. He also learned about Windu's strong commitment to the Order as well as his military service to the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars.
Skywalker regarded Windu with high esteem because of his adherence to Jedi doctrine, referring to him as a true defender of the Jedi Order's principles. In his book, The Secrets of the Jedi, Skywalker acknowledged Windu as a valiant general who fought for the Grand Army of the Republic. He was also aware that Windu was distrustful of politicians and therefore concerned by the Order's entangled relationship with the Galactic Senate. Skywalker believed that Windu's suspicious nature was ultimately vindicated by Darth Sidious' rise to power as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine. He learned that Windu had led a group of Jedi Masters to arrest Sidious, and that Anakin Skywalker intervened by aiding the chancellor. Luke regarded Sidious as corrupt and Anakin's interference as an act of betrayal. As such, he believed that Windu could have defeated the Dark Lord of the Sith if his father had not turned against the Jedi despite the fact Windu almost violated the Jedi Code by killing a seemingly unarmed opponent.

Communion with Rey

"Feel the Force flowing through you, Rey."
―Mace Windu, to Rey
In 35 ABY, during the Battle of Exegol, Windu's voice was heard by Rey among the voices of other legendary Jedi of the past. With their help and the help of Anakin Skywalker's grandson, Ben Solo, Rey destroyed her grandfather, the resurrected Darth Sidious. She succeeded in this by using Leia Organa's lightsaber and Luke Skywalker's lightsaber to reflect Sidious' Force lightning upon him, disintegrating the Emperor's cloned body.

Personality and traits
Physical appearance
Mace Windu was a human male who had brown eyes, dark skin, a strong build, and a height of 1.92 meters. His head was completely bald; although in his youth, Windu had black hair and a braid that marked his status as a Padawan.

Youth

"You would twist such a beautiful thing as faith into something so vile. Wring out what measly credits and adoration you could from these poor people—all while besmirching the esteem of the Jedi Order. And you think that punishment would not find its way to your doorstep? Yet you claim we are the stupid ones… I will make sure you never hurt another soul again. This I vow… As a true Jedi."
―Mace Windu, to Drooz
     Windu devoted his life to the Jedi Order, but struggled in his youth to temper his emotions.  
Mace Windu was devoted to the Jedi Order ever since his formative years as a Padawan learner. However, in his youth he struggled to temper the frustrations he harbored over the things that offended the ideals of the Jedi, which Windu held as sacred. While his feelings were not inherently wrong according to his mentor, Jedi Master Cyslin Myr, she nonetheless believed that her apprentice needed to convert his hostility into a positive force. During their mission on Mathas, he regarded Drooz's use of religion as offensive, having noticed how the false prophet took advantage of his followers' faith. Faith was a beautiful concept to a spiritual young man like Windu, and as such he could not tolerate the heretical actions of Drooz.
Windu, even as a youngling, never responded well to Yoda's humor, which became a reason the Grand Master kept making his jokes, enabling him to often tease the younger Jedi. Although he struggled to temper his animosity for heretics and con artists, Windu expressed empathy for other people, in particular the natives of Mathas who suffered from the effects of the Niffin plague. He saw them as innocents, but was also stunned by their refusal to see Drooz as a charlatan instead of a prophet. While in pursuit of Drooz, who mocked Windu by insulting the esteem of the Jedi Order, the young Jedi almost took Drooz's life, believing he deserved to be punished for using the Jedi's own belief system to prey on the people who expressed faith in the Force.

Jedi Master

"Doubt not the ways of the Force. It tests us at times, but believe it will lead us where we are meant to be, we must. Similarly, doubt not yourself. You are a wise and capable leader."
―Yoda, to Mace Windu
     Grand Master Yoda, the oldest and wisest member of the Jedi Order, held Windu in high esteem.  
As a Jedi Master, Mace Windu was both disciplined and steadfast, as well as unwaveringly committed to the doctrine of the Jedi Order. A clever and senior member of the High Council, Windu sought to protect the Order from the corruption and unrest within the Galactic Republic. Although he firmly believed in the Jedi's role as servants of the Republic, the relationship between the Order and the Senate made him uncomfortable. Noted for his grim demeanor, Windu held corrupt politicians and rebellious Jedi in low regard. He had very little patience for the failures of the Senate and was disdainful of Jedi who disobeyed the will of the High Council. Obi-Wan Kenobi found that Windu had a habit of scowling at everyone. Holding the Jedi teachings as sacrosanct, Windu was suspicious of anyone he perceived to be a threat to the traditions of the Order. He often debated the "maverick" Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn, but neither of them enjoyed such discussions.
A staunch traditionalist, Windu was long regarded as the great champion of the Jedi Order. His commitment to the Order's ancient traditions often put him at odds with less orthodox Jedi, such as Qui-Gon Jinn and especially Anakin Skywalker. When he thought Yoda was hiding something, he went straight to talk to the Grand Master, who waited for Windu to "crack" by not speaking. During their discussion, the two found they disagreed on whether "something" and "nothing" were opposites; Windu, feeling they were indeed opposites, was sure of himself, while Yoda did not like to presume the unknown. Windu also did not enjoy the exposure that came when one of his questions was turned back at him. Despite finding Yoda's behaviors distracting, he always respected Yoda's judgement and knew to follow his training, deciding the Force would educate him about the issue when the time came.

     Mace Windu wields his purple lightsaber.  
In their first encounter, Windu was unimpressed with Skywalker. He was not only skeptical of Skywalker's status as the Chosen One, but also felt that he was too old to dedicate himself to the ways of the Jedi and the Force without the distraction of his emotional attachments. Later Windu came to regard Skywalker as an exceptionally skilled, yet tempestuous Jedi. They had a cordial relationship during the Clone Wars and bantered with each other on a first-name basis when working together.  
While he respected Skywalker's skills, he still saw the young Jedi Knight as too emotional. As such, Windu began having doubts that Skywalker was the Chosen One destined to bring balance to the Force. He had grave doubts about Skywalker's appointment to the High Council at the insistence of Chancellor Palpatine, and believed it was too dangerous to have Skywalker spy on Palpatine. Kenobi sometimes felt Windu had a special frown reserved just for Skywalker.
Windu's reservations were overshadowed by the start of the Clone Wars. In the early days of the conflict, Windu wrestled with feelings of uncertainty concerning the Jedi's new role as warriors, as well as remorse for the Jedi who died during the Battle of Geonosis. In his moments of doubt, he turned to Yoda seeking wisdom and guidance. The ancient Grand Master advised his fellow Councilor to keep faith in the will of the Force; nor question his role in the Order, for in Yoda's eyes, Windu was a wise and capable leader. During a mission on Hissrich, Windu's faith was further tested by his interactions with the Jedi Prosset Dibs, who harbored his own reservations about the Order's part in the conflict.

     As a member of the High Council, Windu was determined to protect the traditions and independence of the Jedi Order.  
Whereas Dibs grew increasingly doubtful, believing the Jedi did not belong on the battlefield, Windu became more certain that—as Jedi Knights—they had a duty to protect the innocent and restore peace to the galaxy. Dibs ultimately accused the Jedi Order of turning away from their traditions, causing Windu to hold fast to his conviction that it was not wrong to fight for the ideals he believed in. The Jedi, Windu felt, never wanted to fight in a war, but circumstances compelled them to become a sword instead of a shield for the Republic.
Windu held Skywalker's apprentice, Padawan Ahsoka Tano, as another rebellious Jedi. When Tano was framed for treason, Windu supported the High Council's decision to revoke her status as a Jedi and turn her over to the Republic for a military tribunal. While their verdict pained him, Windu concurred with Tarkin's position on the matter—an internal Jedi trial would appear biased, and to protect Tano would be to defy the wishes of the Senate. He therefore felt that submitting Tano for trial was the only feasible option available to the Council. After her innocence was proven, however, Windu joined his colleagues in offering to welcome Tano back into the Order, and proclaimed her a greater Jedi because of her ordeal, which he observed as the great trial in her path to Jedi Knighthood. Tano refused to come back, a decision which surprised Windu and the Council.

     Until the Clone Wars forced him to adapt, Mace Windu was committed to the ancient ways of the Jedi Order.  
Notwithstanding his commitment to the ancient traditions of the Order, the Clone Wars forced Windu to rethink some of his beliefs and preconceptions, pushing his fellow Jedi to take actions that were previously considered unthinkable. He held fast to the Order's rigid code throughout the Clone Wars, but also began to consider its potential shortcomings. Prior to the Battle of Geonosis, Windu did not believe it was in the nature of a Jedi—even a former one such as Count Dooku—to assassinate anyone. The onset of the Clone Wars caused Windu to realize that his old friend was more than a "political idealist"; Dooku had joined the dark side as an enemy of the Order and the Republic he had once served. As the death toll escalated after nearly three years of continuous warfare, Windu proposed to have Dooku assassinated in the hope of preventing further civilian casualties. Although his colleague, Obi-Wan Kenobi, asserted that assassination was against the Jedi Code, Windu pointed out that it was also against the Jedi way to allow innocent people to suffer needlessly.

Diplomat and general

"This respected member of the Jedi High Council and general in the Clone Wars was a true defender of the Jedi Order and all that it stood for. Although he fought valiantly for the Grand Army of the Republic, Master Windu was never comfortable with how the Jedi and the Senate had become so deeply intertwined."
―Luke Skywalker
     Windu was a respected negotiator and diplomat.  
As the war progressed, Windu was compelled to engage in politics. Although he disliked the system, he nonetheless proved to be an able diplomat during the Ryloth campaign in which he successfully mediated a truce between two rivals, Senator Orn Free Taa and Cham Syndulla. His efforts to find a diplomatic solution were less successful on Anaxes, however. Upon confronting a regiment of battle droids, he offered to have them reprogrammed in return for their unconditional surrender, citing his capacity for destroying Separatist droids as a reason to avoid fighting him. Their response was to attack, forcing Windu and Kenobi to defend themselves.
In spite of how the conflict forced the Jedi into the role of generals and warriors, Windu held fast to the Jedi Code for the most part. He refused to support the Dugs of Malastare when they proposed to kill the Zillo Beast, which he correctly presumed to be the last of its species. He also chose to not seek retribution against Boba Fett after the latter attempted to assassinate him. Despite his disapproval of maverick Jedi and the avarice of the Senate, Windu was very loyal to both the Republic and the Jedi Order to the point where he bravely risked his life for both institutions throughout the Clone Wars. Even as the Jedi became officers in the Grand Army of the Republic, Windu remained extremely protective of the Order's independence and jealously guarded its interests against external interference.

Jedi Champion

"We do what we have trained our whole lives to do. Trust in the Force. Believe in the path that is set out before us. Stand in defense of all peoples, not just of the Republic, but across the galaxy. We do what any Jedi would when staring into the face of evil. We fight."
―Mace Windu, to Rissa Mano
     Mace Windu was known as the great champion of the Jedi Order.  
Though noted for his grim demeanor, Windu was highly compassionate towards his fellow Jedi, the citizens of the Republic, and the clone troopers under his command. His own survival on Geonosis was of little comfort to him; the galaxy had fallen into a state of war, and the Jedi—once the peacekeepers of the Republic—were forced to adopt the mantle of warriors and military leaders.
Windu worked closely with Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, often acting as an adviser to the leader of the Senate throughout the Clone Wars. As time went on, the Jedi champion grew increasingly suspicious of Palpatine's intentions. During the Zillo Beast's transportation to Coruscant, Windu strongly disagreed with the chancellor's decision to bring the dangerous creature to the Republic capital. Though wary of Palpatine, Windu remained committed to his duty as a Jedi, which required him to ensure the safety of the chancellor. Yet even this responsibility resulted in a disagreement between himself and the chancellor; Palpatine claimed that the level of security around him was unnecessary during his visit to Naboo, but Windu insisted on taking every precaution to protect the chancellor.

     Windu confronted Sidious in the hope of preventing the Jedi Order's destruction.  
In the waning days of the Clone Wars, Windu's trust and respect for Palpatine had all but evaporated. Following Dooku's death, he was uncertain whether Palpatine would relinquish his wartime authority as he once promised. At the same time, Windu came to sense the dark side of the Force surrounding the chancellor. By now he was certain that a plot was in motion to destroy the Jedi Order. When Skywalker confirmed that Palpatine's true identity was Darth Sidious, Windu was determined to take swift and decisive action against the Sith Lord, realizing that the fate of the Jedi Order hung in the balance. Although he initially attempted to arrest Sidious, Windu concluded that it was impossible to seek justice due to the chancellor's hold over the system. He therefore decided to end Sidious' life before the latter could succeed in his plan to fully take over the Republic, despite Skywalker's insistence that killing the Sith Lord—disarmed and seemingly beaten—was against the Jedi Code. However, in concentrating all of his attention on preventing the galaxy from falling under Sith oppression, Windu failed to anticipate Skywalker's intervention, resulting in the demise of the Jedi Order's great champion.

Powers and abilities
Lightsaber abilities

"I have studied his teachings since I was a youngling. His style of lightsaber combat has been the foundation of my own. He is a top five Jedi Master of all time for sure!"
―Rissa Mano, on Mace Windu
     Mace Windu was a master in lightsaber combat.  
Mace Windu was a highly accomplished and powerful Jedi Master who possessed advanced skills in both lightsaber combat and Force abilities. He was considered to be both a champion of the Jedi Order and one of the best lightsaber duelists ever produced.
He was a notable practitioner of Form VII, also known as Juyo or Vaapad (having created the latter variant), and Windu was one of the two known masters of the form that did not fall to the dark side. It was the seventh form of lightsaber combat and considered the most unpredictable or aggressive form. His mastery of it included combat techniques that often treaded with dark side practices and made him a superior combatant, capable of defeating multiple enemies with his unique fighting style. Windu demonstrated his skills against fellow Jedi Master Prosset Dibs, the Nightsister Mother Talzin and even Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith. In the case of the latter, Windu not only survived Sidious' initial assault, which resulted in the deaths of three Jedi Masters, but ultimately prevailed against the Sith in the fight itself. Following an intense, but relatively short duel between the Dark Lord and the Jedi Order's champion, Windu disarmed and cornered the seemingly defeated Sidious.
Windu was also highly adept at deflecting incoming blaster shots with his lightsaber. During the Battle of Geonosis, Windu charged towards Jango Fett while simultaneously deflecting his fire before ultimately disarming and decapitating the bounty hunter in a swift motion. Afterward, he continued to utilize his skills at blaster deflection against an overwhelming number of battle droids, which enabled him to survive long enough until Yoda and the clone army arrived and turned the tide of the battle in the Republic's favor. Throughout the Clone Wars, Windu continued to rely on this defensive technique when leading Republic forces on the frontlines, especially during the Ryloth campaign. In addition to blaster shots, Windu could use his lightsaber to block a Force lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source in a superconducting loop.

Force powers

"Sending a call to other Jedi through the Force was the second lesson I learned as a Padawan…"
―Mace Windu
     Mace Windu was skilled in the Force, including the power of telekinesis.  
As a Force user, his abilities included Force-enhanced reflexes and agility and the ability to see the future. Windu was proficient in various forms of telekinesis, which he could utilize as both attacks and defenses. He was capable of easily summoning his lightsaber, as demonstrated on Geonosis when he quickly reclaimed his Jedi weapon by way of the Force before Fett could prevent this. On Ryloth he used the Force to telekinetically pull battle droids in his direction, rendering them vulnerable to a fatal lightsaber attack. He was also powerful enough to levitate individuals, such as two clone troopers whose lives he saved by using the Force to prevent them from falling to their deaths. In addition to the offensive and defensive applications of the Force, Windu could use his connection to the Force to enhance his physical capabilities, allowing him to engage in acrobatics and land jumps from high places without sustaining injuries. He could use the Force to greatly enhance his speed, notably against battle droids.
Windu's abilities with the Force extended to mind control, a Jedi technique that allowed the user to exert a considerable amount of influence over weak-minded individuals. Against a person of greater willpower than the average being, however, Windu was forced to combine his effort with Skywalker and Kenobi in order to force Cad Bane's cooperation. Although the initial attempt failed, their combined use of the "mind trick" technique caused Bane to experience significant discomfort, which nearly damaged his mind in the process. Windu was also skilled in more rare Force abilities such as battle meditation and was able to sense shatterpoints, key moments where actions could change eventually. Additionally, Windu had the ability to communicate with other Jedi through the Force, making it easier for them to find his location.

Other skills
Windu was also well-versed in hand-to-hand combat, being able to incapacitate multiple Gamorreans unarmed in his youth, fended off two gundarks on his own for a time when deprived of his lightsaber with both skills and strength, defeated and multiple Bardottan cultists unarmed and with a spear, showcasing weapon proficiency. Windu himself was also a distinguished Jedi general, considered an elite military officer and was regarded as the Jedi Council's top battlefield general.
In his younger years prior to joining the Jedi Council, Windu was also a skilled actor and was taught to perform Rodian theater works of Harido Kavila by Alxa Kress, making him also fluent in Rodese.

Equipment
     Mace Windu's lightsaber emitted an amethyst-colored blade.  
During his lifetime as a Jedi, Windu had built at least two lightsabers, both in which produced a purple-hued lightsaber; his second lightsaber was crafted with the highest standards of precision, creating a superior weapon that reflected on his mature abilities as a figure of leadership within the Jedi Order. The hilt of his lightsaber was polished in electrum and had golden highlights, indicating his status as a senior member of the Jedi High Council. The amethyst-colored blade served as warning to adversaries that the Jedi Order's greatest champion was ready to battle.


Behind the scenes

"We were so lucky that Samuel was willing to play the role again. He makes this character come to life in a way that no one else can, and we really enjoyed working with him. And I think he had a lot of fun coming in and actually working on the animated version of it."
―Catherine Winder, on the DVD audio commentary for The Clone Wars film
     Mace Windu was played by Samuel L. Jackson, who requested a purple lightsaber from George Lucas.  
Samuel L. Jackson portrayed Mace Windu in the prequel trilogy and he returned to voice the character in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars film. In the Star Wars: The Clone Wars TV series, his voice was provided by Terrence Carson, who had also played the role in various Legends animation and video games. Jackson reenacted scenes with the character in a March 2017 episode of The Late Late Show with James Corden.
The name "Mace Windu" was already featured in the earliest incarnation of what would become Star Wars—a 13-page document written by George Lucas in 1973. According to Concept Artist Iain McCaig, early artwork of Windu was based on the face of Industrial Light & Magic modeler Steve Aplin, before the casting of Samuel L. Jackson.
Jackson requested George Lucas that his character be given a purple lightsaber because he wanted to be able to find himself in the Geonosis battle scene in Attack of the Clones. He reasoned that, since Windu is the second most powerful Jedi after Yoda, Windu should have a lightsaber of a different color from the customary red, blue, and green. As a reference for Jackson's iconic role in the film Pulp Fiction the crew presented him with a lightsaber "BMF" engraved on the hilt, standing for the phrase "bad motherfucker".
Following Lucasfilm Ltd.'s buyout by The Walt Disney Company in 2012 and the announcement of the Star Wars sequel trilogy, Jackson expressed interest in reprising his role in the 2015 film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, opining that he could return as a Force spirit given Windu's death in Revenge of the Sith. The actor further expressed his interest in playing Windu again in the Star Wars Anthology Series, insisting that character may have survived. Jackson eventually reprised his role in a brief vocal cameo in the 2019 film Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker, the final film of the Skywalker saga.
Windu is voiced by Carson in Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi and some non-canon media. He is the official "audio double" for the character.[source?]
