






The Final Season
One Last Fight

In the epic final season of Star Wars: The Bad Batch, the Batch will have their limits tested in the fight to reunite with Omega as she faces challenges of her own inside a remote Imperial science lab. With the group fractured and facing threats from all directions, they will have to seek out unexpected allies, embark on dangerous missions, and muster everything they have learned to free themselves from the Empire.
The final season stars Dee Bradley Baker, Michelle Ang, Keisha Castle-Hughes, Jimmi Simpson, Noshir Dalal, and Wanda Sykes.
Watch the latest episode, "Into the Breach," and gear up with Wookieepedia's editing tutorial to help with expanding our coverage of The Bad Batch!


 WookieeNews


 
 
 
 




 

 

 

 




The Acolyte
On June 4, in an age of light, a darkness rises
 
 Read more >




The Bad Batch: The Final Season
Now streaming on Disney+!
 
 Read more >




Star Wars: Tales of the Empire
A new regime rises…
 
 Read more >




The High Republic Phase III
Nowhere is safe within the eye of the storm…
 
 Read more >






 

 

 

 





 Article Showcase

Myhr Rho was a tour guide who ran the "Skywalker Tour" in the wake of the Battle of Endor. A member of the Cathar species, he was born on the planet of the same name, but was raised on the arid Outer Rim Territories world of Tatooine. Rho hated the planet, and he was unable to find honest work in Mos Eisley. During the early years of the Galactic Civil War, he spent most of his time in Chalmun's Cantina, drinking away his worries.

When the Alliance to Restore the Republic won the Battle of Endor in 4 ABY and Emperor Palpatine died, Rho joined in the city-wide celebration in Mos Eisley. He later learned that Luke Skywalker, a hero of the Alliance, had originally hailed from Tatooine; inspired by the plays performed at the cantina by Cebann Veekan and Ackmena, Rho decided to start the "Skywalker Tour." Rho's tour took visitors to pivotal locations in Skywalker's life, such as the Lars homestead and the Great Pit of Carkoon. This venture was short-lived, however, as Rho encountered difficulties from B'omarr Monks and Tusken Raiders. (Read more…)
Read our status articles… Featured · Good · Comprehensive


 The Bad Batch
HunterWreckerEchoOmegaCrosshair


 Did you know…
From Wookieepedia's newest articles, expansions, and overhauls:

…that visitors could invoke the Rite of Hospitality to claim temporary lodging on the frozen planet of Thelj?
…that the Rebel Alliance operated flight schools on  Farstey and Homon?
…that the Vandrayk Scale was a measurement that related likelihood for an asteroid to house the exogorth species?
…that Zabrak love ballads were a type of traditional music with over twenty verses?
…that David Tennant won a Daytime Emmy for voicing Huyang in Star Wars: The Clone Wars?
…that the design of the Nautolan Clariah was based on actress Anjelica Huston?
Archive · Contribute to Wookieepedia!





Welcome to Wookieepedia!
We are the Star Wars encyclopedia that anyone can edit — created by fans, for fans. Founded in 2005, our goal has been to build the most accurate, comprehensive, and well-presented resource about all things related to the galaxy far, far away.
We want readers like you to join our ranks! Sign up for an account to remove ads, chat with fellow fans, and join our editing community. Not sure where to start? Our dedicated editing guides are here to help you!



 Social



 On this day…

April 22
1939 – Mark Jones is born.
1965 – Roman Coppola is born.
1976 – Misty Lee is born.
1976 – Chuck Wendig is born.
1977 – ILM concludes filming for Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope with a Star Destroyer shot (shot 110P).
1980 – As Long As We Live... serial begins at the Los Angeles Times Syndicate.
1980 – Star Wars (1977) 37 published.
1992 – The Han Solo Adventures republished.
2002 – Star Wars: Attack of the Clones: The Illustrated Companion published.
2003 – Star Wars: The Clone Wars video game released for the Xbox.
2004 – "Nien Nunb, Kessel Administrator: An Expanded Universe Character" published.
2009 – Dark Times 13 published.
2009 – Knights of the Old Republic 40 published.
2014 – Star Wars Insider 149 published.
2015 – Star Wars (2015) 4 published.
2015 – Star Wars Rebels Magazine 4 published in the United Kingdom.





In other languages


българскиcatalàčeštinadanskDeutschΕλληνικάespañolفارسیfrançaisGaeilge한국어hrvatskiitalianoעבריתíslenskaქართულიLatinamagyarNederlands日本語norskpolskiportuguêsromânăslovenščinaсрпски / srpskisuomisvenskaTürkçeукраїнська中文





 