Mas Amedda


Biographical information

Homeworld
Champala



Descriptive information

Species
Chagrian


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.96 meters (6 ft, 5 in)


Mass
91 kg


Eye color
Blue


Skin color
Blue



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic RepublicGalactic SenateOffice of the ChancellorStrategic Advisory CellGalactic EmpireImperial SenateImperial Ruling CouncilSithCoruscant's provisional government


[Source]



"We all do our part for the Empire."
―Mas Amedda
Mas Amedda was a Chagrian male politician hailing from the planet Champala who served as Grand Vizier following the Galactic Republic's reorganization into the Galactic Empire at the end of the Clone Wars, a pan-galactic conflict between the Republic and its splinter state, the Confederacy of Independent Systems. A Chagrian with impeccable political skills, Amedda served as the Vice Chair of the Republic Senate in the chancelleries of Finis Valorum and his successor, Sheev Palpatine, who was secretly the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, something that Amedda was privy to knowing. In an alien gesture of authority, he would often punctuate his calls for order with a flicker of his long, forked tongue. Though he believed himself to be the pinnacle of the Empire in the wake of Emperor Palpatine's death, Amedda was instead remembered by history as a weak-willed sycophant of the Emperor.
Prior to collaborating with the Sith, Amedda served as the senator for his homeworld of Champala, rising to the position of Vice Chair in the administration of Finis Valorum, which was hampered by corruption accusations. When the Trade Federation invaded the Mid Rim planet Naboo, its queen, Padmé Amidala, traveled to Coruscant seeking Republic intervention against the occupation. In a scheme for Palpatine—then a senator from Naboo—to remove Valorum from office, Amedda tried to sway the Chancellor into ignoring Amidala's plea. This ultimately led to Valorum being removed from office via a Vote of No Confidence and being replaced by Palpatine. Amedda retained his position under the Palpatine administration, serving as one of the Chancellor's closest advisors during the burgeoning Separatist Crisis. When the crisis hit its peak, Amedda duped Gungan Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks into proposing a successful motion to the Senate that would give Palpatine executive emergency powers. This allowed the Chancellor to organize legions of clone troopers from Kamino into the Grand Army of the Republic, sparking the Clone Wars against the nascent Confederacy of Independent Systems.
With the galaxy at war, Amedda continued to serve in the Office of the Chancellor, leading the Strategic Advisory Cell and supporting Palpatine in his decisions as a wartime leader. As the war came to a close, the time for the Sith Grand Plan to be enacted arrived. Palpatine enacted Order 66, which had the clone troopers turn on their Jedi Generals and assassinate them, and, with Amedda by his side, created the Galactic Empire, the successor state to the Galactic Republic. In the chaotic repercussions that followed shortly thereafter, Grand Master Yoda confronted Sidious with Amedda in attendance. After the two engaged in a lightsaber duel, Amedda officiated a ceremony outside the burned Jedi Temple, in which he burned many-a-lightsaber that had belonged to the fallen Jedi.
Amedda was rewarded for his loyalty to Palpatine, and he prospered under the Empire, serving as the Grand Vizier in the Imperial Ruling Council. One of the most respected figures in the fascist government, military leaders heeded Amedda's summons on behalf of Palpatine, while governors dreamed of being thought worthy of his attention. After the Emperor was killed during the Battle of Endor, Amedda was forced to serve as a figurehead for Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax, the self-styled Counselor to the Empire. 
Following the Battle of Jakku, Amedda surrendered to the New Republic by signing the Galactic Concordance that saw the Empire formally incorporated into the New Republic. On Coruscant, he led a powerless planetary provisional government as its nominal leader. 

Biography
Early life
Mas Amedda was a native of the Chagrian homeworld of Champala in the Inner Rim, living during the latter decades of the Galactic Republic. He was an eager and capable politician during this time, and achieved the office of Senator in the Republic's Galactic Senate on Coruscant prior to 32 BBY.[source?] During his time as Chair of the Senate, Amedda served as a committee chairman and worked alongside representatives from the icy world of Vallt in the Outer Rim Territories, whom he noted were growing increasingly discontent with their lack of trade support and respect from the Republic.

Senate stalwart

"Enter the bureaucrats—the true rulers of the Republic. And on the payroll of the Trade Federation, I might add."
―Sheev Palpatine, on Mas Amedda's role in the Valorum chancellery
The Chagrian politician was eventually selected to serve as Vice Chair of the Senate at large—a role that placed him second only to the Supreme Chancellor in the Republic's political hierarchy— and installed him as Speaker of the Senate. In this capacity, Amedda had a hand in managing the Republic's overwhelming bureaucratic superstructure and advised Chancellor Finis Valorum on matters of Senate procedure. Criticisms about the unresponsiveness of the Republic and pervasive corruption in congress plagued the Valorum administration in this era, and Amedda became embroiled in widespread rumors that he was on the payroll of the Trade Federation, a Neimoidian-run megacorporation. Over the course of its existence, the Federation had grown to be a significant economic and political force in the Republic, with unprecedented representation in the Senate and near-complete control of shipping and commerce in the Outer Rim Territories. In 32 BBY, and to the Federation's chagrin, the Senate passed Prop 31-814D, which authorized the Republic to levy taxes on trade in the Free Trade Zones, which had previously been dominated by the Neimoidian's tariffs with little government regulation.

     Amedda calls for order as the Senate demands a Vote of No Confidence against Supreme Chancellor Valorum.  
In protest, the Trade Federation established an illegal blockade around the Mid Rim planet of Naboo, cutting off all shipping to the planet. The egregious overstep threw the Senate into crisis, spurring endless debate and further damaging the Valorum administration's political viability. Amedda was notably unhelpful to the Supreme Chancellor at this time and leveraged his bureaucratic power to slow efforts to provide relief to Naboo. The Federation ultimately invaded the world and tried to force its monarch, Queen Padmé Amidala, to legalize the action by signing a treaty with the conglomerate. Instead, Amidala fled with the aid of Jedi negotiators to seek Republic intervention in an appearance before the Senate.
As Vice Chair, Amedda presided over a special session of congress in the Senate Building's convocation chamber alongside Supreme Chancellor Valorum and his administrative aide, Sei Taria. Queen Amidala's appearance before the Senate had been arranged by Naboo's Senator Sheev Palpatine—a rising star with whom Amedda worked to sabotage Valorum's credibility. However, the Vice Chancellor deceitfully played all sides against each other, serving both Valorum and Palpatine. Together, Palpatine and Amidala presented an impassioned plea for relief from the Trade Federation's predations, but were interrupted and accused of slander by the Federation's representative, Lott Dod, who called for a commission to be formed to verify the Naboo's claims. Just before Valorum could reject their objection, the Chancellor was interrupted by Amedda, who advised him to sustain the objection. Valorum did as Amedda had told him to, asking that Amidala defer her motion to allow for a commission to be established. On Palpatine's advice, Amidala declined and responded to the Chancellor's apparent indecisiveness by calling for a Vote of No Confidence in Valorum's leadership—a motion that proved overwhelmingly popular when the chamber broke out into calls to vote immediately, drowning out Amedda's calls for order.
The motion from the Naboo delegation was successful and Valorum was removed from office. While an election for a new Supreme Chancellor pitted Palpatine against Ainlee Teem of Malastare and Bail Antilles of Alderaan, Amedda served as steward of the Senate. When Palpatine rode a wave of public sympathy for Naboo's plight into an electoral victory, he kept Amedda as Vice Chair of the Senate, making him an integral part of the new Supreme Chancellor's administration. With Amedda swearing his loyalties to Palpatine in order to politically survive, Palpatine eventually confided in Amedda that his political persona was merely an alter ego—in truth, he was Darth Sidious, a Dark Lord of the Sith and longtime enemy of the Jedi Order. Although the Jedi had long been the protectors of the Republic, Amedda shared the Sith's vision for a strong central government, so he became an active participant in Sidious's grand scheme to supplant the ancient democracy with a New Order. Sidious only gave the Vice Chair a general idea of his plans, not wanting to burden the Speaker with details he did not need to know.

Spark of the Clone Wars
Secessionist Movement

"The Senate must vote the chancellor emergency powers. He can then approve the creation of an army."
―Mas Amedda, to the Loyalist Committee
In the years following Valorum's ouster, Palpatine's administration enjoyed popular approval even as discontent grew in the outlying systems. During this time, Amedda worked with the Supreme Chancellor and his senior aide, the Umbaran Sly Moore, to attend to matters of state and gradually concentrate power within the Office of the Chancellor. As talk of secession grew and the Senate and bureaucracy became increasingly ineffective, the administration publicly appeared to be earnestly struggling to hold the Republic together. In truth, Palpatine was stoking the potential for war through the ex-Jedi firebrand Count Dooku, who had become a much-admired proponent of separatism on disaffected worlds. Amedda continued to play the role of loyal Vice Chair of the Senate and worked with the Loyalist Committee to advise the chancellor on how to manage the growing rift in the Republic.

     The Loyalist Committee's Strength and Unity poster was a major gaffe for Amedda.  
Near the end of Palpatine's second term, a slew of worlds seceded from the Republic and formed the Confederacy of Independent Systems, throwing Coruscant into a panic. The Senate suspended the mandated term limits in response to the growing Separatist Crisis, allowing the Supreme Chancellor and his administration to remain in power for a full decade. Around this time, Amedda and the Loyalist Committee focused on rousing Republic patriotism through concerted messaging campaigns that included commissioned works of propaganda. One well-recognized piece, Strength and Unity was conceived by Amedda himself and intended to highlight Rim and Expansion Region peoples within the Republic. The poster was arranged by artist Angilar Bosh and included an image of the Vice Chair to represent the Chagrian people. The self-inclusion was widely criticized in the media and the campaign was marred by accusations of narcissism on Amedda's behalf.
The growing crisis was compounded when the Republic's economy faltered under heavy debt and the Confederacy began military mobilization. Predictions of open war became common and the Republic, which had survived for centuries without a central military, was faced with the decision to create one under the Military Creation Act. Although the administration was publicly dedicated to a peaceful solution to the Separatist Crisis, Amedda and Palpatine worked to promote militarization through political manipulation. In 22 BBY, the Senate was intended to vote on the resolution, but the decision was delayed after an assassination attempt was made on Padmé Amidala, now Senator of Naboo. In the wake of the attempted assassination, Amedda escorted the Loyalist Committee to a meeting with the Supreme Chancellor in his office, wherein Palpatine suggested that Amidala be put under the protection of the Jedi High Council, specifically Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan, Anakin Skywalker. The tactic removed Amidala, the leading anti-militarist voice in the Senate, from the capital in advance of the vote, allowing Amedda to circumvent her in his manipulations.
In the following days, it was discovered that a clone army had been created for the Republic in secret on the hidden world of Kamino. Shortly afterward, Amedda attended a meeting in the Chancellor's office with the Loyalist Committee and Jedi Council, during which Kenobi reported that the Confederacy had forged a pact with several galactic megacorporations to manufacture an army of battle droids to wage war against the Republic. The revelations shook the Jedi and Senate, prompting Ask Aak of Malastare and Bail Prestor Organa of Alderaan to comment on the need for a clone army, but that the Senate would never approve its use. This allowed Amedda to insist that Palpatine be granted emergency powers to handle the crisis. In an attempt to manipulate the Naboo Junior Representative, Jar Jar Binks, into proposing an emergency powers amendment, Amedda suggested that Senator Amidala would have made the proposal were she available. The tactic was successful, and Binks called for the Supreme Chancellor to be granted immediate emergency authority in lieu of a vote on the Military Creation Act.
The Senate approved the measure in a special session presided over by Palpatine, Amedda, and Moore. The Supreme Chancellor accepted the authorities attached to the wartime powers and activated the clones of Kamino to form the Grand Army of the Republic, which would operate at the behest of the Senate and fight under the command of Jedi Generals. This development was followed shortly by a massive battle on the Separatist foundry world of Geonosis between the Republic and Confederacy—the first conflict of the Clone Wars. In the wake of the battle, Amedda joined the chancellor and members of the Loyalist Committee to observe the Grand Army deploy to the war front from its Coruscant staging grounds.

The Clone Wars
Palpatine's projects

"How long will it take to develop this…marvel of technology? I need an estimate.""Very difficult to say. Many of the greatest minds in the Republic are working on it. Nevertheless, the weapon will require something truly novel in the realm of energy enhancement. A breakthrough of, dare I say, galactic proportions."
―Mas Amedda and Gubacher
     Amedda joined Palpatine and the Loyalist Committee to oversee the launch of the Grand Army of the Republic.  
At the outset of the Clone Wars, Chancellor Palpatine directed Mas Amedda to establish and direct the Strategic Advisory Cell—a wartime strategy council tasked with the most classified Republic Military projects. Within the first year of the war, the cell consisted of 150 members, including the Vice Chair, his advisers, representatives of Republic-allied industrial firms, as well as members of the Special Weapons Group, the War Production Board, the Army, Navy, and the Commission for the Protection of the Republic. All members of the group were subject to the Official Secrets Oath which protected their work from the Jedi and much of the Senate. One of Amedda's early recruits to the Strategic Advisory Cell was Orson Callan Krennic, a Lieutenant Commander with the Corps of Engineers who had directed the redesign of the Republic Center for Military Operations.
Early in the conflict, the Republic and Confederacy entered into a protracted campaign on Malastare to control the native Dugs' greatest resource, Malastarian fuel. On the occasion of the Republic's ultimate victory in the battle, an ancient and massive Zillo Beast was awakened. Palpatine was intrigued by the monster's apparent invulnerability to all attacks and so ordered that it be subdued and brought to Coruscant for further study. Upon its arrival on the capital, Amedda joined the Supreme Chancellor and Doctor Sionver Boll to witness the beast's transfer to a research facility in the Republic Science and Technical Center. The chancellor hoped to study and replicate the monster's armor for use in the Grand Army, but Doctor Boll admitted it would be impossible to do so without removing the scales from the beast. Although Amedda cautioned Palpatine on his approach, the chancellor decided to have the Zillo Beast killed so its secrets could be unlocked.
The Jedi, who were involved in its original capture on Malastare, were opposed to the beast's presence on Coruscant and the plan to kill it for the sake of study. On the Jedi Council's behalf, Senator Padmé Amidala and Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker called a meeting with Amedda and Palpatine in the Senate Office Building to discuss the issue. Amedda was largely dismissive of Amidala's concerns, but he and the chancellor were able to convince Skywalker that the decision to kill the Zillo Beast was in the best interest of the war effort. During the meeting, Amedda received word from Doctor Boll that she had managed to synthesize Malastarian fuel into a toxic gas that could hypothetically kill the monster. Palpatine gave the order to execute the beast, but the endeavor was unsuccessful; the Zillo became agitated by the gas and broke free from the Science and Technical Center to rampage across the Coruscant cityscape. The beast was finally destroyed by Republic and Jedi forces when it attacked the Senate Office Building and endangered Chancellor Palpatine and Senator Amidala.
Shortly after the Second Battle of Geonosis in the second year of the war, the Strategic Advisory Cell began holding weekly briefings on its projects. During the second of these briefings, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine joined Mas Amedda to present to the council impressive but incomplete designs for a massive deep-space mobile battle station that would later be known as the Death Star. Although the ambitious plans were allegedly created by the Separatists on Geonosis before falling into Republic hands, the captured Geonosian Archduke Poggle the Lesser insisted that the Confederacy was not building the station. Nevertheless, the Republic intelligence community disagreed, allowing Palpatine and Amedda to use the threat of a Confederate battle platform to secure funding and launch the development of the planet-killer superweapon for the Republic using the same design. The early stages of the project were carried out under the administration of the Vice Chair and the Strategic Advisory Cell, with specific design and oversight tasks delegated to subcommittees and member agencies.

     Development of the Death Star began under Amedda's coordination of the Strategic Advisory Cell.  
Within several months, construction in the now-restricted Geonosis system was well underway, with project member Doctor Gubacher reporting at a Strategic Advisory Cell briefing that labor droids had completed the station's prime meridian. Although the gathered members of the Cell were eager to discuss the acquisition of a sentient labor force for the interior of the station, Amedda pushed on to one of the key design gaps in the original plan: the superstructure's primary weapon. The cell was still uncertain what variety of weapon the Confederacy had intended on installing into the station's primary array, and Special Weapons Group lead scientist Professor Sahali insisted to Amedda that planet-killing armament on that scale would require a scientific breakthrough.
Shortly after the briefing, Amedda met with Lieutenant Commander Krennic, who was now the coordinator of the Special Weapons Group's scientific researchers. Krennic was eager to impress the Vice Chair and exert greater influence over the project, and so suggested to Amedda that his team required the participation of Galen Erso, a noted polymath and academic authority on energy enhancement. Although Amedda was skeptical, Krennic explained that Erso had been under the employ of Zerpen Industries and nearing a breakthrough in kyber crystal energy output. Erso had been captured months prior when Separatist proxies staged a coup on Vallt, accusing the scientist of espionage. The Vice Chair was inclined to dismiss the importance of an anti-war neutralist researcher, but Krennic convinced him that if the Republic did not rescue and recruit Erso, the Confederacy would coerce him into service. Amedda remained wary but gave implicit consent to Lieutenant Commander Krennic to arrange for Erso's release.

Neutralist affairs

"It proves what I've been saying all along—Death Watch is out of control. The Republic must step in and help.""No, wait! I didn't—""You can't keep them reined in, obviously, so we will."
―Mas Amedda and Satine Kryze
Throughout the Clone Wars, the Republic struggled with a number of systems that, despite being members of the Senate, resisted any participation in the war effort and openly rejected Jedi and military assistance. These worlds banded together in the Council of Neutral Systems under the leadership of Duchess Satine Kryze of Mandalore, who was particularly critical of the Republic's increasing militarism. However, when agents of the Mandalorian Death Watch terrorist organization allied with the Confederacy and threatened to topple Kryze's government, Amedda and Palpatine pushed the Senate to authorize an occupation of Mandalore.
During a session of the wartime Senate, Amedda presided over the chamber as senators debated the potential threat that Death Watch posed to the people of Mandalore and the virtue of a Republic occupation. Duchess Kryze, having traveled to Coruscant to attend the session, forcefully argued against intervention and asserted the right of her people to remain neutral in the war. Speaking from the podium, Amedda dismissed her claims as unreasonable idealism, but Kryze held firm. Ultimately, Palpatine and Amedda won the debate when they presented to the Senate a prerecorded holographic testimony from the late Mandalorian Deputy Minister Jerec. Although Jerec was an ally of the Duchess, his testimony—which had been doctored as part Sidious's scheme to drag Mandalore into the war—claimed that the Republic military needed to intervene as Kryze was unwilling to admit that her pacifist crusade had failed.

     Amedda and Palpatine hear the testimony of Duchess Satine Kryze.  
The vote on the resolution to invade Mandalore was scheduled for the following day, but after an attempt on Kryze's life, Amedda and Palpatine advanced it to that evening. The two of them met with the Duchess during the vote but neglected to inform her that the Senate was currently deciding the fate of her world. Instead, Amedda argued with Kryze that the assassination attempt was further evidence that her administration was incapable of managing the Death Watch threat without Republic assistance. By the time the meeting was over, the Senate had approved the resolution and the Republic military prepared for an invasion of Mandalore.
That night, Kryze was accused of murder when an informant was killed after providing her with Jerec's undoctored testimony. The Duchess went into hiding overnight but was able to deliver the holodisc to Senator Amidala, who presented Deputy Minister Jerec's true testimony to the Senate the following day. The undoctored footage proved that Jerec had in fact supported Mandalore's neutrality and Duchess Kryze, a revelation that convinced the Senate to rescind the approval for occupation. In the aftermath of their defeat on the Mandalore issue, the Vice Chair and Chancellor met with Kryze, Amidala, and the Jedi to offer the Duchess a formal apology. The two then joined Senator Amidala to discuss the logistics of ratifying the Senate's vote.
Amedda later presided over congressional sessions focused on the Trade Federation's blockade of Pantora, wherein Pantoran senator Riyo Chuchi argued before the Senate that the Federation was working in league with the Confederacy to persuade her people to secede from the Republic. Federation representative Lott Dod denied the claims, falsely asserting that, as neutralists, the conglomerate's affiliation with the Separatists remained strictly commercial and that the blockade was merely an effort to force Pantora to fulfill its trade debts. Amedda and Palpatine were again present when, days later, Dod was forced to apologize to Chuchi when it came to light that the blockade was indeed a scheme orchestrated by Trade Federation Viceroy and Separatist Council member Nute Gunray.
Construction on the Death Star continued, but Amedda was growing increasingly cynical about Orson Krennic's endeavors. Following their discussion about Galen Erso, Krennic had enlisted Republic Intelligence operatives and naval forces to perform a prisoner swap and assault on Vallt. Despite the effort, Erso had still not consented to join the Special Weapons Group and furthermore, Krennic had met with and discussed the battlestation with the captive Poggle the Lesser without prior approval. Amedda confronted the Lieutenant Commander after a Strategic Advisory Cell briefing, demanding to know who authorized him to launch an attack on Vallt. Krennic explained that the sector admiral had given the green light in accordance with a deal struck with the neutralist Zerpin Industries. The Vice Chair conceded that the recapture of Vallt was of strategic benefit to the Republic, but still scolded Krennic for neglecting the chain of command, meeting with the Geonosian archduke, and failing to recruit Erso into the project. To Amedda's surprise, Krennic had levied the meeting with Poggle into an arrangement wherein the Geonosian would be returned to his homeworld in exchange for his people serving as a labor force in the orbiting Death Star construction site. The Erso situation proved more complex, as the pacifist scientist was staunchly opposed to military work, but Krennic assured Amedda that the doctor would soon join the cause.

Deregulation and defense spending

"Let us now vote on Senator Burtoni's bill to fund five million additional clones.""The opposition to this bill must be allowed to speak first!"
―Mas Amedda and Mon Mothma
As the Clone Wars dragged on and became increasingly costly for the Republic, Amedda worked closely with the militarist wing of the Senate, who pushed aggressively to further fund the war effort. Discussion in congress was largely focused on the economic stability of the government under the strain of war and Amedda presided over one such debate addressing an emergency financial reform bill proposed by Techno Union representative Gume Saam. The Vice Chair attempted to moderate the raucous argument over the legislation—which would open new lines of credit to finance the war by deregulating the galactic banking industry—but fiscal conservative senators like Bail Organa of Alderaan and defense hawks like Halle Burtoni of Kamino filled the chamber with crosstalk. Although Senator Amidala was able to seize the floor, her suggestion that the Republic sue for peace with the Confederacy was shouted down. Amedda ended the session after a motion from Organa called for further study on the deregulation question before a vote was conducted.

     Amedda and Palpatine discuss the Separatist peace initiative with Senator Amidala and Padawan Tano.  
Days later, Amedda and Palpatine met with Amidala and Jedi Padawan Ahsoka Tano in the chancellor's office, where the Naboo senator reported that the Separatist Parliament had voted to advance a peace initiative with the Republic. The Chancellor attempted to convince Amidala that any talk of peace among the Separatists was disingenuous, but Amidala revealed that she had personally coordinated the vote with her former colleague, Separatist Senator Mina Bonteri. Palpatine and Amedda agreed to hold a vote on the peace initiative, but the Dark Lord of the Sith had already put plans into motion that would derail any move to end the war and ensure the passage of the deregulation bill.
When the Senate reconvened to vote on Senator Saam's measure, it appeared as though news of the Separatist's peace movement had convinced the congress that bank deregulation and further war funding was unnecessary. However, just as Amedda called for the legislators to vote on the bill, explosions rocked the Senate District and mass blackouts spread across Coruscant. The Senate took a short recess before reconvening under emergency lighting, where it was revealed that the bombing was a terrorist attack carried out on the ecumenopolis's central power distribution grid by Confederate demolition droids. Amidala continued her anti-war plea, but the Vice Chair declared that the Separatist peace initiative was an obvious ploy to distract from terrorist activities. The Senate was incensed, which allowed Palpatine to call for approval of the financial reform bill, ensuring its overwhelming approval.
The following day, Amedda and Palpatine convened the Senate to formally respond to the Separatist peace offer and the bombing. Amidala refused to give up her crusade, but the congress had largely turned against prospect of peace. Instead, Senator Burtoni proposed a bill of her own, which would authorize the purchase of five million additional Clone troopers by securing a loan from the now-deregulated InterGalactic Banking Clan. Amedda interrupted debate over the measure by informing the Chancellor that a communique had been received from Count Dooku, in which the Confederate Head of State accused the Republic of assassinating Mina Bonteri, the architect of the Separatist peace movement. In the aftermath, the Chancellor and Vice Chair ushered the Senate towards approving the defense appropriations bill; Amedda worked with Senators Burtoni, Mot-Not Rab, and Mee Deechi while Palpatine arranged for opposition representatives to be intimidated by hired thugs.

     Palpatine informs Amedda that he will allow the wheels of Senate to turn.  
When the bill proceeded to the floor, it appeared the legislation would pass easily. Opposition leader Bail Organa had been injured in an intimidation scheme and Amidala's efforts to persuade senators to vote against the bill floundered. Amedda pushed the bill to a vote over the protests of Senator Mon Mothma, but was interrupted by the arrival of Amidala, who intended to speak in Organa's place. Her impassioned plea convinced many across Coruscant to oppose the legislation, but the bill passed regardless. In a private meeting after the vote, Palpatine admitted to Amedda that he was troubled by the anti-war senator's ability to sway public opinion.

     Amedda views Phase II clone trooper armor plans with several militarist senators.  
In the aftermath of the vote, the anti-war faction rallied around Amidala and her ally, Rodian senator Onaconda Farr, to push a piece of counter-legislation that would slash the Republic's defense budget and undo Burtoni's victory. Amedda watched as Amidala delivered yet another well-received speech in support of her legislation, despite the high degree of partisanship in the convocation chamber. Shortly afterward, Senator Farr died of apparent heart failure, leading to a Coruscant Security Force investigation and a postponed vote on the new appropriations bill. Amedda attended Farr's funeral alongside the Chancellor and several other senators and dignitaries. After the service, Amedda joined the Chancellor in his office for a meeting with Security Force Inspector Tan Divo, as well as Senators Amidala, Organa, Mothma, Orn Free Taa, and the Rodian Junior Representative Lolo Purs. Divo revealed to the gathered leaders that Senaor Farr had been murdered by way of poison, but assured them that he had the investigation under control.
Amedda continued to meet with Senate leadership and Lieutenant Divo throughout the investigation. After the Umbaran militarist leader, Senator Mee Deechi, was found murdered in his office, Divo sequestered the congressional leaders and arrested Senator Burtoni for both assassinations. The Kaminoan was brought before the Chancellor, Vice Chair, and anti-war leadership for a brief interrogation from Divo, who explained to the assembly that forensic evidence showed Farr was killed by a Rodian-specific poison from Kamino. During the arrest, Lolo Purs admitted to having murdered Farr for his previous support for the Confederacy and Deechi for possessing information related to the Farr's assassination. Purs was arrested and Burtoni was released, and the Senate eventually returned to regular business to vote on Amidala and Farr's bill—which it rejected. The Vice Chair joined the Chancellor's retinue after the vote when Palpatine advised Amidala to trust in the war effort to achieve security.

Conspiracy and collusion

"Isn't it remarkable that one can have all the power in the galaxy and yet, the words of a single senator can sway the thoughts of millions?""What do you plan to do about this?""For now, we must adhere to the principles of our democracy. We must let the wheels of the Senate turn."
―Darth Sidious and Mas Amedda
In the third year of the war, Palpatine's administration and the Jedi Council were rattled by reports that Dooku had hired criminal mastermind Moralo Eval to kidnap the Supreme Chancellor. Eval was preemptively captured by Republic forces and imprisoned at the Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center, but Amedda and Palpatine were still subjected to enhanced security from the 501st Legion and Coruscant Guard. Eval escaped the Detention Center days before the Vice Chair and Chancellor were scheduled to travel to Naboo for the Festival of Light, but the Chancellor remained committed to making the trip despite the obvious danger.

     Mas Amedda with Generals Windu and Skywalker, Chancellor Palpatine, Senator Amidala, and Queen Neeyutnee in Theed on Naboo  
Amedda and Palpatine were escorted to Naboo by Jedi Master Mace Windu, Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, and a contingent of clone shock troopers aboard a Jedi T-6 shuttle. Upon arrival in the capital city of Theed, they were met by Queen Neeyutnee, Governor Sio Bibble, and Senators Amidala and Organa as security and boarding arrangements were finalized. At the ceremony that evening, Amedda and the other dignitaries joined Palpatine on a scenic overlook outside of Theed Royal Palace, where the Supreme Chancellor delivered a speech to commemorate Naboo's entry into the Republic. Although the gathering was protected by Senate Guards, shock troopers, Jedi, and a ray shield, one of Eval's bounty hunter associates managed to detonate the shield generator, thereby throwing the crowd into a panic. While Amedda and other high-value guests were escorted away by Tano, the Jedi foiled Eval's kidnapping plot and arrested the bounty hunter perpetrators. The following morning, Amedda returned to Coruscant alongside most of the chancellor's security retinue.

     Palpatine orders Amedda to have his ship prepared.  
In his private role as attendant to the Dark Lord of the Sith, Amedda was by Darth Sidious's side as news circulated that the former Sith apprentice, Darth Maul, was alive and building a shadow army to challenge the Jedi, Sith, Republic, and Confederacy in the final year of the war. The Dark Lord was deeply troubled by this development and so asked Amedda to arrange secret transport to Mandalore, which had been taken over by Maul. A short time later, Amedda joined a congressional delegation and military representatives to attend funerary services for six Jedi who were killed in a terrorist bombing of the Jedi Temple. Tano was later arrested for the crime and excommunicated from the Jedi Order, allowing for her to be tried before a Republic Military–Senate tribunal. Mas Amedda served as a bailiff for the court, calling it to order under Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, who served as judge. Although Senator Amidala spoke passionately as defense litigator, she and Tano were unable to answer many of the accusations levied by the prosecution, represented by admiral and adjutant general, Wilhuff Tarkin. Just as a jury of senators transmitted their verdict to the Vice Chair, the proceedings were interrupted by Anakin Skywalker, who claimed to have identified the true culprit: Jedi Padawan Barriss Offee. Offee admitted to the bombing before the tribunal and was taken into custody while Tano was released.
Amedda was again involved in Sidious's conspiracies to subvert the Jedi when clone trooper CT-5385 executed Jedi General Tiplar at the Battle of Ringo Vinda, seemingly unwarranted. After the clone fell into a state of psychosis and died, it was revealed that Advanced Recon Commando CT-5555 had removed the inhibitor chips that Kaminoans implanted in the brains of all clones at birth. On Palpatine's orders, he was transported to the Grand Republic Medical Facility on Coruscant; Mas Amedda was at the facility to greet the clone and his escort, Jedi Master Shaak Ti and Kaminoan Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se. The Vice Chair led the party into an operating theater where the Supreme Chancellor waited to hear directly from the clone, Jedi, and Kaminoan. After a brief discussion on the cause of CT-5385's breakdown, Amedda escorted Ti and Se from the room so Palpatine could speak privately with CT-5555. When the three of them heard a violent clatter from within the operating theater, they rushed back in to find the clone attempting to assassinate the chancellor. CT-5555 escaped, but Palpatine retrieved what he needed: the extracted clone inhibitor chips. Unbeknownst to both the Jedi and the clones, the chips were part of Sidious's plan to turn the Grand Army against the Order. After CT-5555 was found and killed, Amedda joined Palpatine in a meeting with members of the Jedi Council, where the two of them presented false information on the cause of the clone's breakdowns, thereby protecting the Dark Lord's plot.

Rise of the New Order
Early nationalization

"I believe that in these dangerous times, the Bank must be protected at all costs. And a man who has no allegiance to either side, and the support of the Muun people, is our best hope.""Then we shall put it to a vote. […] A resounding majority in support of the nomination!"
―Sheev Palpatine and Mas Amedda
In the advanced stages of the Clone Wars, Palpatine and Amedda moved aggressively to centralize significant swaths of the the Republic's government and economy into the authority of the Chancellor's Office. The administration found a major victory in this effort when Darth Sidious targeted the InterGalactic Banking Clan, which controlled the galactic banking industry and operated under the purview of the Muun government with legal oversight from the Republic and Confederacy. In a carefully orchestrated scheme by the Sith, Senator Amidala and disgraced former senator-turned-Banking Clan adjudicator Rush Clovis revealed that efforts to secure funding for the supreme chancellor's refugee initiative had uncovered evidence showing that the Banking Clan was defrauding its clients; the banks' main vault had been emptied by the Banking Clan's Muun leadership, the Core Five, and loans to both the Republic and Confederacy were financed exclusively by the paid interest from the opposing sides. Further, the Separatists began altogether refusing to repay the interest on their loans, threatening complete economic collapse. Amedda was present at a meeting in the Chancellor's Office, where Palpatine, the Jedi Council, and Senator Organa were briefed on the situation my Amidala and Clovis. Although the files indicating fraud were damning, distrust of Clovis and a lack of evidence on the secret accounts receiving the embezzled funds spurred only an investigation into the matter.
Sidious's machinations allowed the investigation to uncover the secret accounts, and a short time later Amedda was again in a meeting with the chancellor, Amidala, and Clovis. This time, they were joined by Banking Clan official Mak Plain and representatives from the Muun government who reported that the Core Five had been arrested on the evidence provided by Clovis's investigation. Following the meeting, the Vice Chair presided over a Senate session wherein Clovis testified against the Banking Clan leadership and asked for a formal nomination to take control of the Clan from the Core Five. Despite having been implicated in a treason plot with Lott Dod prior to the Second Battle of Geonosis, Clovis's candidacy was championed by Amidala, who claimed that the former senator was the only figure who could be approved by both the Republic and Confederacy.
Despite significant misgivings about Clovis's allegiance, endorsements from the Muuns and the supreme chancellor pushed the Senate to overwhelmingly approve him as the new head of the Banking Clan. Amedda announced the results of the vote, which was ratified by the Separatist Parliament. The new InterGalactic Banking Clan chairman returned to the Bank's headquarters on Scipio, where he seized control from the Core Five and quickly declared a significant interest rate hike on Republic loans. News of the hike quickly reached Coruscant, where the Amedda and Palpatine convened the Senate to discuss the development. The congress was irate, with senators declaring that the sudden rate hike proved Clovis's loyalty to the Separatists. The debate only grew more heated by news that the Banking Clan would not be imposing any similar rate hike on Confederate loans. After the session, Amedda returned to the Chancellor's office with Palpatine and General Skywalker, where the three men received a transmission from Senator Amidala. Amidala had returned to Scipio with Clovis to represent the Republic's interests, but was now reporting that the Confederacy navy had invaded the planet in an apparent effort to seize control of the banks with Clovis's assistance. When Amidala was taken into Confederate custody on-camera, Amedda rushed to invoke an emergency session of the Senate so the legislature could approve a military intervention on Scipio.
The Senate approved the intervention, which saw the Separatists rooted out of the Banking Clan's headquarters and Rush Clovis killed. In a senate session after the upheaval, Amedda and Palpatine watched as Clovis was posthumously blamed for the corruption in the banks and the crisis that followed. Senator Nix Card announced to the assembled senators that, in the interest of economic stability, the Muun government was ceding control of the InterGalactic Banking Clan to the Office of the Supreme Chancellor. The decision was met with broad approval in light of the chancellor's promises to restore the banks at the end of the Clone Wars, despite the fact that nationalization of the galactic financial industry was yet another step towards the authoritarian rule Palpatine and Amedda desired.
Amedda was later present when Queen Julia of the neutral world of Bardotta appealed to the Senate for diplomatic aid via holographic transmission. The chancellor and vice chair were puzzled when Julia rejected Senators Amidala and Organa as ambassadors and instead demanded that Representative Jar Jar Binks be sent to handle the affair.

Death of the Republic

"Senator Organa, the Supreme Chancellor requests your presence at a special session of Congress.""I will be there.""He'll be expecting you."
―Mas Amedda and Bail Organa
Amedda remained by Sidious's side as the Dark Lord's machinations reached their endgame at the height of the war. Under Sidious's direction, Count Dooku and the Confederate General Grievous swept into Coruscant with a massive naval force and kidnapped the supreme chancellor. Before they were able to abscond with the Republic head of state, the Separatist fleet was interdicted by the Republic Navy and Palpatine was rescued by General Anakin Skywalker. Dooku was killed in the conflict, but the war carried on while the Senate continued to vote to give the Chancellor's Office increasingly significant powers to end the war. Days after the Battle of Coruscant, Amedda joined Chancellor Palpatine, Sly Moore, and Senator Sweitt Concorkill at the Galaxies Opera House in the Uscru District for an evening of theater. During a showing of the Mon Calamari ballet Squid Lake, the four politicians were joined in their private box by General Skywalker, who had come to the opera house at the chancellor's request. While discussing the location of General Grievous and the remaining Separatist leadership, Palpatine dismissed Amedda, Moore, and Concorkill so he could confer privately with the young Jedi Knight.
A brief time later, General Grievous was killed on Utapau in an action that was intended by the Jedi to end the war. Although Palpatine had publicly promised to push for an end to hostilities on the occasion of the general's death, it was simultaneously revealed to the Jedi Order that the supreme chancellor was secretly the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious who had been manipulating events throughout the Clone Wars and long before. The Jedi Council's attempt to arrest Palpatine for his crimes ended in disaster; the four arresting Jedi Masters were killed and Anakin Skywalker joined the Dark Lord as his new Sith apprentice, Darth Vader. In the immediate aftermath, Sidious declared the Jedi enemies of the state and activated Order 66—a clone protocol programmed into their inhibitor chips that marked all Jedi for execution.

     Amedda and Moore stood by Darth Sidious's side as the Dark Lord declared a New Order.  
With the Senate marginalized and the Jedi purged, the Supreme Chancellor moved to end the war by sending Darth Vader to hunt down and kill the remaining Separatist leadership on Mustafar. In preparation for this finale to the Clone Wars, Amedda invoked a special session of congress and personally called upon members to assure their attendance. One such member was Bail Organa, who told Amedda that he would be there. The Vice Chair replied that he would be expected, then ended the transmission. In what became known as the first Empire Day, Sidious, in his public role as Palpatine—heavily deformed by his battle with the Jedi—stood before the Senate alongside Amedda and Moore to issue the Proclamation of the New Order, which formally ended the war, branded the Jedi as traitors, and transformed the Republic into the First Galactic Empire.
After the proclamation, Amedda joined Sidious in the latter's office beneath the Senate Chamber and watched as the newly-minted Galactic Emperor conferred via hologram with Darth Vader. The two were taken by surprise when Grand Master Yoda, who had survived Order 66, entered the chamber and quickly dispatched the two Imperial Guards stationed to protect the new Empire's leadership. The Emperor assaulted Yoda with a blast of Force energy, throwing the diminutive alien across the room and allowing Amedda the opportunity to depart with confidence that the Sith would best the Jedi. The contest between Darth Sidious and Yoda laid waste to the Senate Chamber's interior, but the Jedi's last-ditch effort to avoid extinction was met with failure. Amedda joined the Emperor in the Senate chamber to help coordinate the search for the assailant, but Clone Commander Thire soon reported that Yoda's body was not found. This convinced Amedda that the Jedi was still alive, and Palpatine asked for Thire and his squad to double their search. The Emperor then ordered Amedda to contact his shuttle pilot, Captain Kagi, to prepare for travel to Mustafar, as he sensed Vader was in grave danger.

Grand Vizier of the Galactic Empire
New role, new era

"You hear so many rumors. People are here one day, gone the next. And no one has laid eyes on the Emperor in months. Amedda, Dangor, and the rest of the Ruling Council have taken to dispatching processions of Imperial skylimos to maintain an illusion that the Emperor still moves about in public. You know they commissioned an enormous statue of the Emperor for the Senate—I mean, Imperial Plaza? So far, the thing looks more terrifying than majestic.""Isn't that the idea, Nils?"
―Nils Tenant and Wilhuff Tarkin
     Amedda and several troopers prepare to incinerate lightsabers  
After having relayed the Emperor's message to Captain Kagi, Amedda spoke at a large public rally outside the former Jedi Temple to commemorate the Order's eradication. The Chagrian's speech proclaimed the Jedi's oppression and treachery to be over at the hands of Darth Sidious and heralded an "age of freedom" for the galaxy. In conjunction with the fiery address, Imperial stormtroopers dumped a basket of confiscated lightsabers into a large incinerator to be burned before the gathered crowd. Amedda himself added Yoda's lightsaber, lost by the Jedi Master during the duel in the Senate, to the crucible. The public demonstration ended after the kyber crystals in the lightsabers produced a large energy discharge from within the inferno.
Sometime later, Amedda was present in the Emperor's office with Governor Tarkin as he reported on the progress of the Death Star's construction to the Emperor. The Grand Vizier asked Tarkin of the superlaser, to which the governor began to state that early tests were successful. Suddenly two Royal guards were thrown against the office window, startling Amedda who then saw the heavily injured figure of Darth Vader. Amedda was ordered by the Emperor to leave the office along with Tarkin.
In these early days of the Age of the Empire, the civil government and military superstructure of the Old Republic were overhauled under the direction of Darth Sidious and Mas Amedda, who had transitioned from Vice Chair of the Senate to Grand Vizier of the Galactic Empire. As Grand Vizier, Amedda acted as an intermediary for the increasingly reclusive Emperor, the primary administrator of the massive Imperial bureaucracy, and the leader of the Imperial Ruling Council. The Ruling Council—consisting of Amedda and a handful of aids and sycophants from Palpatine's days as senator and supreme chancellor—handled the day-to-day governance of the Empire while the Emperor himself focused largely on matters of the Force and the rapidly expanding Imperial Military. Much of Amedda's work shifted from the Senate Building to a temporary office in the old Jedi Temple, which was quickly being renovated into the new Imperial Palace. Meanwhile, the Imperial Senate became an increasingly irrelevant body as the Emperor's new regional governors, known as Moffs, liaised directly with the regime through Amedda.
While much of his work was based on Coruscant, Amedda did, at one point, retreat to the planet Byss, where he drew up plans for the Empire's New Order. Throughout the Imperial period, the Emperor sent his private yacht, the Imperialis, to remote worlds to have droids, advisers, or his Jedi-hunting Inquisitors carry out clandestine plans. After one of these trips, Amedda was introduced to Gallius Rax, a young man who had stowed away aboard the Imperialis and was now being ushered into the Imperial Navy by Sidious himself. During Rax's time at the Imperial Academy he met with the Grand Vizier and the Emperor, as well as Admirals Dodd Rancit and Terrinald Screed of Imperial Intelligence and Colonel Wullf Yularen of the Imperial Security Bureau. Although Rax's later career with the Naval Intelligence Agency sealed or obscured most of his record, an image of his meeting with the Grand Vizier and the intelligence chiefs was stored in the Hall of Imperial Register on Coruscant.

The Death Star takes shape

"What is the status of the weapon, Lieutenant Commander?""We're making slow but steady progress.""We can accept steady, but slow is unacceptable. Need we remind you that this isn't some public works program for Poggle's enslaved descendants? The weapon is the priority. The station is nothing without it."
―Mas Amedda and Orson Krennic
     Orson Krennic was eager to prove himself to Amedda, but frequently overstepped his bounds.  
Despite a series of setbacks late in the Clone Wars, construction on the Death Star continued under the direction of the new Imperial Imperial Military Department of Advanced Weapons Research agency, led by Director Orson Krennic. Although Krennic's team now included Galen Erso and had access to kyber crystals previously hoarded by the Jedi Order, the project had moved into a new phase that would require a significant increase in resource procurement—far beyond what could be inconspicuously gathered from Geonosis's sector. As the Death Star's construction still needed to be hidden from the Senate and the galaxy at large, Amedda approved Krennic's request to seek the necessary materials from select worlds in the lightly-populated Western Reaches, a region that was subjected to Imperial pacification operations against Separatist holdouts since the end of the war. Following the Grand Vizier's guidance to remain discreet, Krennic targeted the worlds Samovar and Wadi Raffa, both of which were protected from industrial exploitation by legacy statutes intended to limit environmental impact. Through the director's manipulations, the limited mining interests on those worlds were implicated in an arms trafficking plot, thereby allowing the Imperial Military to move in and seize control of the planets' resources.
The team of scientists assigned to design the weapon itself—then operating under the facade of Project Celestial Power—continued to run into stumbling blocks with Erso's research, eventually resulting in a catastrophic explosion at their facility on Malpaz. Although the research team was saved, the disaster killed tens of thousands of locals and forced Amedda to intervene directly in Krennic's project. Amedda traveled to the Geonosis construction site alongside a retinue of advisers, where he was treated to a shuttle tour of the Death Star's exterior surface by the director himself. Although the superstructure had progressed significantly, Amedda's specific concerns were on the development of the weapon. Krennic tried to assuage the Grand Vizier's displeasure with the situation, but Amedda was insistent that the research teams begin producing results. The Chagrian also chastised Krennic for using Imperial Military assets to seize the mining interests on Samovar and Wadi Raffa without direct prior approval. The Grand Vizier informed Krennic that the Emperor's trust in his ability had eroded, and that the director was now to focus solely on the weapon and forgo efforts to oversee procurement and production. In spite of the rebuke, Krennic still requested a promotion to the rank of Rear Admiral at the conclusion of the meeting, but Amedda was only willing to entertain the notion of Krennic rising to commander.
Two years into the Empire's reign, Krennic's team had finally manufactured a proof-of-concept laser array ready for testing. Although Amedda asked that it be test-fired somewhere near Imperial Center in the Core Worlds, Krennic feared a repeat of the Malpaz disaster and so instead tested it in a remote binary black hole system. Amedda was appraised that the test was successful and later contacted the director to offer his congratulations and announce the approval of Krennic's promotion to commander. Amedda and the Emperor had hoped that now-Moff Wilhuff Tarkin would become more involved in the Death Star as the project entered a new phase, but the governor was embroiled in a surprisingly protracted campaign to root out insurgents and defiant corporate interests in the Salient system. The conflict had been secretly arranged by Krennic as part of yet another resource acquisition scheme, but was largely intended to keep Tarkin away from the Death Star and out of the Grand Vizier's good graces.
When the Senate objected to the happenings in the autonomous Salient system, Amedda contacted Moff Tarkin to encourage a retreat from hostilities. It was clear to the Chagrian that the insurgents were destroying the very infrastructure that the Empire hoped to seize, and Tarkin admitted that his marginal success on one of the system's outlying moons was not enough to dissuade Salient's local defenses still garrisoned on the inward planets. Amedda advised Tarkin to conclude his operations before they became any more costly to the Empire, but the governor was insistent that the insurgents be eliminated by his hand. Conversing over jamming efforts by Salient Strategic Command, the two men argued over the value of committing more stormtroopers or the Empire's new TIE fighters to the campaign. The Grand Vizier ultimately conceded that a victory at Salient was important for the Empire in the Corporate Sector and so acquiesced to Tarkin's request for reinforcements.
The project was again met with a setback when Galen Erso and his family fled the Special Weapons Group and disappeared. The Grand Vizier and the Emperor held Krennic responsible for the loss and placed Tarkin in charge of the Sentinel bases that guarded and monitored shipments to the Death Star's construction site. Amedda met with Krennic in his office on Coruscant to inform the director that the governor would monitor his progress on the weapon and that the prior promotion to commander was being rescinded. Despite Krennic's assurances to the Grand Vizier that his research teams could make up for the loss of Erso, development on the planet-destroying superlaser would stall for a further five years. while construction continued under the watchful eye of Moff Tarkin.

Intelligence failures

"Three weeks ago, one of our intelligence assets reported a startling find on Murkhana. Due to the nature of the find, ISB wasted no time in bringing the matter to the attention of the Ruling Council, as well as to our counterparts in Military Intelligence. Normally ISB would have pursued an investigation on its own, but on Vizier Amedda's recommendation we are opening it up to discussion, in the hope of resolving how best to proceed.""Please don't leave us hanging, Deputy Director, and come to the point."
―Harus Ison and Mas Amedda
In the years following the proclamation of the New Order, Amedda and the Ruling Council became increasingly powerful actors in galactic governance as the historically oppressive reign of the the Empire expanded far beyond the borders of the former Republic and Confederacy. As proxies for the Emperor, Council members had oversight of military matters as well as those of the Empire's intelligence services—the Imperial Security Bureau as part of the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order and Imperial Intelligence. In 14 BBY, the Imperial Security Bureau reported to the Grand Vizier that one of their assets on the former Confederate world of Murkhana had discovered a large cache of sophisticated equipment capable of sabotaging or hijacking HoloNet signals and broadcasts. Although the Bureau typically handled matters related to dissident propaganda and communications, Amedda urged ISB Deputy Director Harus Ison to involve the Ruling Council and the newly-formed Naval Intelligence branch of Imperial Intelligence in the response.

     Mas Amedda, Grand Vizier of the Galactic Empire.  
Three weeks after the cache was discovered, Amedda contacted Governor Tarkin on Sentinel Base to inform the governor that the his presence was required on Coruscant. Tarkin was hesitant to leave his command as the base had recently come under attack from unidentified parties, but Amedda clarified that refusal was not an option as the request came from the Emperor himself. The Grand Vizier and a phalanx of Imperial Guards greeted the Governor upon his arrival at the capital and guided him through the completely renovated Imperial Palace. Before meeting with the Emperor himself, Amedda took Tarkin to a palace courtroom, where Darth Vader—now confined to identity-obscuring cybernetic armor—was holding court. Alongside Harus Ison and the Coruscant Security Force Prefect Phoca Soot, Vader harangued a group of underworld miscreants for their overreach and executed Soot for corruption. Amedda was irritated by the bloody killing and asked Vader to consider patience before personally executing the accused, but the Sith Lord dismissed the request.
After Tarkin met with the Emperor, Amedda presided over a meeting wherein the heads of the intelligence community briefed the Emperor, the Ruling Council, Tarkin, and Vader on the Murkhana discovery. Deputy Director Ison and Colonel Yularen of the ISB explained the discovery of the cache and argued that the equipment was likely gathered by political dissidents planning a propaganda campaign against the Empire. Vice Admiral Dodd Rancit and Admiral Terrinald Screed disagreed with the assessment and asserted instead that the Naval Intelligence Agency should lead the investigation, as the cache could point to a military threat against the Empire. As the briefing devolved into bickering between the intelligence chiefs, Amedda called for Tarkin to testify on the recent attack against Sentinel Base. The attack had involved falsified HoloNet transmissions indicating a possible connection to the Murkhana cache, leading most in the meeting to conclude that the situation was beyond the scope of the Security Bureau. Amedda closed the meeting, declaring that the Emperor would consider the issue.
Sidious ultimately elected to send Tarkin and Vader to Murkhana together to investigate the cache, thereby sidestepping the rivalries between the intelligence chiefs. Amedda gave the Governor his mission and, at the Emperor's behest, said nothing of who would be in command. The Vizier later informed the Emperor that Tarkin was displeased with the assignment; Vader was similarly displeased but the two followed their orders and traveled to Murkhana aboard the Carrion Spike, Tarkin's personal warship.
Once the Carrion Spike was shipjacked by insurgents and used to attack Galidraan Station, Amedda and Ars Dangor were dispatched by the Emperor to meet with the intelligence officers Ison, Dodd Rancit and Screed, where he was angered at their recommendation to let the Carrion go and told them of the threat of dissidence, when the report of an attack on Lucazec arrived. As the situation progressed, Amedda continued to meet with the Ruling Council and the Emperor, who eventually asked him to summon the ISB agents responsible for the Murkhana discovery. As the Emperor interrogated Bracchia and Stellan, Amedda, 11-4D, and a pair of Royal Guards listened to Sidious, who discovered the dubious involvement of Vice Admiral Rancit with the insurgents.
By 5 BBY, Ars Dangor and Sly Moore had become a member of his private chamber. That year, Amedda infiltrated several of Mon Mothma's Separatist Coalition meetings, believing that the senator was an irritation due to her fights against Imperial overreach and her condoning of Separatist sympathizers. At one point, as the Emperor was unavailable, Amedda received Governor Arihnda Pryce from Lothal during her visit to Coruscant in order to discuss Lothal's industrial and mining sectors.

The Imperialis theft

"You do understand what will happen to you if you do not recover that ship, Commander Pasqual.""Of course, my Lord Amedda."
―Mas Amedda and Pasqual
     Amedda is informed by Pasqual of the theft of the Imperialis  
Some time after the Empire's Death Star was destroyed by the Alliance to Restore the Republic, a rebel organization created to fight back against the Empire, at the Battle of Yavin. During the turmoil, Amedda was contacted on Coruscant by Commander Pasqual, informing him that the Emperor's pleasure craft, Imperialis, which was docked at Sienar Fleet Systems Orbital Shipyard CC-24 above the Colonies world of Castell, had been stolen. Amedda ordered Pasqual to recover the ship at once, reminding him that he had already failed in keeping the ship secured. Amedda went before Darth Sidious, and informed him of his ship's theft.

Darth Vader's punishment

"You were sent to bring Skywalker to the dark side...instead, you let him escape. Then you were ordered to report to your Emperor...instead, you left on your own personal mission. You discovered a cell of rebels...led by a double of senator Padmé Amidala, whom you should have slaughtered. Instead, you let her escape. At best, failure. At worst, treason.""And what do we do with traitors, Mas Amedda?""We kill them, my lord."
―Mas Amedda and Darth Sidious, about Darth Vader's failure
After Darth Vader failed to turn his son Luke Skywalker to the dark side of the force in Cloud City, Amedda contacted Admiral Firmus Piett on board the Executor to find out if the Millennium Falcon had escaped, which Piett confirmed. Amedda then explained that the Emperor requested Vader contact him immediately. However, Vader was in his shuttle on the way to Tatooine with his squadron of death troopers and ZED-6-7, and when Amedda asked, Piett replied that Vader was currently unavailable. Thereupon, the Emperor, who sat next to Amedda and overheard the entire conversation, laughed at this news.

     Darth Vader Force chokes Mas Amedda and the Royal Guards  
After Vader returned from his personal mission to the Imperial Palace, Sidious attacked Vader with Force lightning. Vader, blocking the lightning with his lightsaber, asked his master why he was doing this, and Sidious ordered Amedda to enlighten him. The Grand Vizier reminded Vader that he had let Skywalker slip away and left Padmé Amidala's former handmaidens alive. He accused Vader of treason and ordered two Royal Guards to attack Vader, which they did. Vader, however, handled them, even after Sidious took his lightsaber from him. Amedda reached for his blaster, but Vader Force choked him and the guards with the Force, only to let them go when Sidious began choking his apprentice.
Sidious then tore Vader's artificial limbs from his apprentice and transported him to Mustafar, where he let two death troopers drop him off at the exact spot where he had lost to his former master Obi-Wan Kenobi in battle over twenty years ago. Sidious explained to Vader that he would have to find his way back to old strength on his own and without using the Force. When Sidious was back in his shuttle, Amedda checked Vader's life support systems and location, and found that he was making his way to the ruins of the Techno Union installation to upgrade himself with the remaining machinery. The Grand Vizier warned the Emperor that Vader wanted to kill him, but Sidious only responded sarcastically and Amedda withdrew his warning. Sidious then revealed to the Chagrian that he had put the Sith assassin Ochi of Bestoon on Vader's trail.
Sometime afterwards, Amedda met with Sidious on the Sith Citadel of Exegol, where Vader had taken Ochi to discover the Emperor's secrets. Following Darth Vader's surrender and apparent resignation to share Sidious' power, Amedda departed from Exegol along with Sidious, Sly Moore, Vader and Ochi.

Emperor de jure

"You…you're serious. You want me to surrender…the entire Galactic Empire?""That's right.""I don't…""You don't have the power, do you?""I…""So, get it back. And then bring a treaty to our door."
―Mas Amedda and Leia Organa
Amedda had the massive task of keeping the Empire together after Darth Sidious's death at the Battle of Endor, acting as proxy Emperor. In reality, he held little real influence beyond the throneworld of Coruscant. His reign was troubled from the beginning, as whole sectors of Coruscant started to revolt, and Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax refused to allow Grand Admiral Rae Sloane of the Imperial Navy to send reinforcements to Amedda, as the throneworld had no place in his vision of a renewed Empire. As Amedda's powers and influence faded, with Rax replacing him as de facto emperor and his control over most of Coruscant waning, he would, in his despair and desperation, seek to turn himself over to the New Republic. He saw himself as a prize of the highest priority, eventually making his way to a meeting with Chancellor Mon Mothma and Princess and Senator Leia Organa on Velusia. However, his plan would fail, as they refused to accept him as a prisoner and instead demanded he find a way to gain full control of the Galactic Empire to ensure a complete surrender.
After returning back to Coruscant, Amedda considered suicide by jumping off of one of the Imperial Palace's balconies. However, as he made his way back into his office, he realized that he had a visitor. Sloane was sitting in his office, and, initially, Amedda thought she had come to kill him. To his surprise, the Grand Admiral handed him a picture. It showed Darth Sidious, Amedda himself, Vice Admirals Screed and Rancit, Yularen, and a young boy. Sloane was curious about the boy in the picture. When he attempted to reach for his blaster, Sloane revealed that she had it. Remembering Mothma's words about him just being an administrator, Amedda decided that, to gain the Empire back in his grip, he would need to strike an alliance with Sloane. He confirmed Sloane's suspicions about the picture: the young boy was indeed Gallius Rax. Amedda then offered Sloane a way to find out who Rax was and where he came from. In return for the location of this crucial information, Amedda wanted to become a part of Sloane's Empire. After Sloane agreed, Amedda revealed the droids that contained the information Sloane sought were aboard the wreckage of the Imperalis on Quantxi, the junk moon of Ord Mantell.

Captivity and surrender

"Get me clear, I can turn myself in. I'll give the Republic the codes to open the doors to the Imperial Palace. I'll tell them everything. I'll surrender the whole Empire. Please."
―Mas Amedda, to the Anklebiter Brigade
During the final months of the Galactic Civil War, Amedda was confined to the Imperial Palace by soldiers loyal to Rax. Using intimidation tactics such as the threat of death or torture, Rax forced Amedda to broadcast propaganda speeches praising the Counselor and urging the Empire to maintain the war effort. When a group of children infiltrated the Palace, initially seeking to assassinate the Grand Vizier, Amedda promised to surrender the Empire and end the war if they facilitated his escape. The young Coruscanti agreed and with their assistance, Amedda went into hiding. He would later recount the experience, crediting the gaggle of children who rescued him from captivity.
Following Rax's death at the Battle of Jakku, Amedda reemerged and—with the military shattered into ineffective remnants—was free to represent the Empire at the signing of the Galactic Concordance. Unlike other Imperial officials who were convicted of war crimes, the Republic spared Amedda—who was removed as head of the Empire—and permitted him to resume his rule on Coruscant as the leader of a provisional government. However, Republic officials would oversee his administration to ensure that the Grand Vizier remained little more than a figurehead of a powerless government. With that, Amedda became leader of the postwar Coruscant government.

Legacy
Amedda was remembered as a willing, yet weak-willed participant in the establishment of the Galactic Empire. The media and history books portrayed him as a sycophant and lackey of Darth Sidious.

Personality and traits

"Never again will we fear the Jedi! Through the grace of our Emperor Palpatine, we were saved from their treachery. The Jedi are gone. The Emperor saw through their plots. Their lies. He survived their attempt to assassinate him, and now, at last…we are safe. Never again will their instruments of oppression terrorize the galaxy. We have entered a new age. An age of freedom! Thus tyranny ends!"
―Mas Amedda
     Mas Amedda holding the Speaker's staff.  
Mas Amedda was a Chagrian male who stood at 1.96 meters. He had both blue skin and eyes. His booming voice often called for order when the partisan nature of the Republic's government degenerated into pointless bickering. In a gesture of authority, he would often punctuate such calls with a flicker of his long, forked tongue. His horns intimidated political opponents and he would often fold his hands in a determined manner while in the Senate.
For much of his political career in the Galactic Republic and Galactic Empire, Amedda was a political functionary who excelled in administration. He had a talent when it came to political survival. A political chameleon, Amedda did not seek the office of highest power but merely wanted to have its ear and confidence. Following the death of Darth Sidious at the Battle of Endor, Grand Vizier Amedda lacked the charisma and ideological fervor need to hold the fragmenting Galactic Empire together. Amedda's authority was also undercut by Fleet Admiral Gallius Rax, who assumed command of most of the Imperial remnants. With the New Republic, the successor to the Rebel Alliance, rapidly gaining ground, Amedda tried to surrender to the New Republic leadership in order to save himself. However, Chancellor Mothma rejected his offer since he lacked the authority to facilitate the Empire's surrender.
Amedda's lack of charisma and malleable nature allowed stronger Imperial players such as Grand Admiral Rae Sloane and Fleet Admiral Rax to manipulate and dominate him. Amedda once contemplated suicide when unable to extricate himself from the Empire's spiral into decline. Towards the end of the Galactic Civil War, Amedda was forced by stormtroopers loyal to the-now Counselor to the Empire Rax to serve as his puppet and read Imperial propaganda. Disillusioned with the Empire, Amedda accepted help from a group of street children known as the Anklebiter Brigade, who rescued him from captivity.
Recognizing that the Empire was lost, Amedda signed the Galactic Concordance with the New Republic, formally ending the Civil War and the Empire. While Amedda was spared punishment due to his cooperation with the Republic, he was remembered as a weak-willed sycophant and lackey of the Emperor.

Behind the scenes
Mas Amedda was played by Jerome Blake in The Phantom Menace, David Bowers in Attack of the Clones, and by both Blake and Bowers in Revenge of the Sith. In Star Wars: The Clone Wars, he was voiced by Stephen Stanton.
