Otoh Gunga


General information

Builder
Boss GalloGungans



Location information

Planet
Naboo


Climate
Lake Paonga


Points of interest
Ancient QuarterCity BigspaceGrand WalkwayHigh Board RoomOtoh Gunga Zoological Research FacilityOtoh Gunga GardenOtoh Villages



Societal information

Population
One million Gungans


[Source]



"Ex-squeeze me, but da most safest place t'would be Gunga city. 'Tis where I grew up. 'Tis a hidden city."
―Jar Jar Binks
Otoh Gunga, also known as simply Gungan City or Gunga City, was a Gungan city located beneath the surface of Lake Paonga on the planet of Naboo. It was originally built by the Gungans in order to avoid contact with their surface-dwelling Naboo neighbors. When the Trade Federation invaded Naboo, their armies stormed the swamps, forcing the Gungans to abandon the city.

Description

"I'm going to Otoh Gunga. Their technology is so different from ours, and I want to see how it affects their art."
―Eirtaé
     The interior of Otoh Gunga  
Otoh Gunga was a prominent Gungan city situated in the waters of Lake Paonga on the planet Naboo. Its bubble-like buildings were in fact hydrostatic force fields that contained breathable atmospheres for their occupiers, and had special portals that allowed its inhabitants to enter and exit. Since the Gungans actually grew the building material of their cities from the natural plasma of Naboo and bubble wort extract, the structure of Otoh Gunga was a hub and spoke network. The bubbles, which housed around one million residents, were anchored to the lake floor by huge stone pillars. The designs of the buildings were inspired by fish, fish eggs, aquatic plants, and air bubbles.
The city notably housed the High Council, which ruled over the Gungans from the High Board Room. It also contained a number of "invertebrate eateries" as well as an attraction called the City Bigspace, which was build by Boss Rugor Nass. The oldest part of the city is known as the Ancient Quarter.

History

"My troops are in position to begin searching the swamps for these rumored underwater villages. They will not stay hidden for long."
―OOM-9, to Nute Gunray
The city was originally built by the Gungans in order to avoid contact with their surface-dwelling Naboo neighbors. When the Trade Federation invaded Naboo, their armies stormed the swamps, forcing the Gungans to abandon Otoh Gunga.

     Qui-Gon, Obi-Wan, and Jar Jar visit Otoh Gunga  
In 28 BBY, after leaving Queen Padmé Amidala's service following her last term as monarch, the former handmaiden Eirtaé moved to Otoh Gunga wanting to see how their technology affected their art.
In 32 BBY, the Gungan Jar Jar Binks was banished from Otoh Gunga by Boss Nass after he crashed the Gungan leader's personal heyblibber submarine. Following the Trade Federation's Invasion of Naboo shortly after, their armies stormed the swamps, forcing the Gungans to abandon Otoh Gunga. Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi were sent to the planet by the Galactic Republic. There, they met the outcast Binks, who led them to Otoh Gunga at their behest despite his banishment. From there, the Jedi were granted a bongo submarine and used the vessel to travel to the capital city of Theed.
Following the Invasions of Naboo during the Galactic Civil War, the New Republic starfighter pilot Yendor invited his fellow Corona Squadron mates to dine in Otoh Gunga. The city's residents were said to be able to produce a dessert that took at least four hominids to consume. This dessert was said to deliver one into a straight sugar coma. However, one of the pilots, Thane Kyrell, elected not to join his mates because he was still mourning the loss of his former Imperial Academy classmate Ciena Ree, whom he believed had perished during the Battle of Endor.

Behind the scenes
Otoh Gunga first appeared in the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. According to early storyboards of the film, Otoh Gunga was meant to be wiped out along with the Gungans prior to the Battle of Naboo. However, as genocide was judged to be too dark for the film, the story was adjusted.
