







Ottilie


Descriptive information

Species
Human


Pronouns
She/her


Hair color
Black


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Light



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Crimson Dawn


[Source]



"How do you do it? How do you put on that smile and act like you want to be here?""I do want to be here. I serve drinks and I'm good at it. I don't want to do anything else. And I certainly don't want to be anywhere else. I'm safe here."
―Qi'ra and Ottilie —  Listen (file info)
Ottilie was a human who worked as a server for guests on board Crimson Dawn crime lord Dryden Vos's yacht, First Light. Almost two months after the enslaved Corellian Qi'ra was brought aboard the First Light, Ottilie was sent to bring her a meal while Qi'ra was being confined to her quarters as a punishment.
Qi'ra, who believed an easy target like Ottilie being sent was a test by Vos, asked the server about how she pretended to want to be on the yacht, but Ottilie replied that she did want to be there serving drinks, as she was good at it and it was safe. In 10 BBY, she was serving at a party on the yacht when the starship arrived on the planet Vandor. During the party, Qi'ra took two of the glasses of quanya from Ottilie's tray and thanked the server.

Biography
Happy to serve

"Thank you for bringing me my food."
―Qi'ra thanks Ottilie —  Listen (file info)
     Ottilie brought a meal to Qi'ra aboard the First Light.  
Ottilie was a human who worked as a chic server on board the First Light, the personal yacht of crime lord Dryden Vos, head of the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. Almost two months after the enslaved Corellian Qi'ra arrived on the yacht, Ottilie was sent to bring a meal to her while the Corellian was being punished with confinement to her quarters. Qi'ra—who had been born in 31 BBY—was only a few years younger than Ottilie and considered the server an easy target, believing that the meal delivery was a test by Vos to see what she would do after having killed a guard several hours prior.
Instead of attacking, Qi'ra asked Ottilie how she was able to smile and pretend to be happy working aboard the First Light as the server set down the tray. Surprised that Qi'ra would think otherwise, Ottilie answered that she was where she wanted to be as she was good at serving drinks and safe. Qi'ra then thanked the server for the food, and Ottilie's carefully neutral expression changed to a smile easy enough that Qi'ra was convinced that the guard's body had been removed before Ottilie could see it. The server then picked up Qi'ra's empty tray from breakfast and left her to eat, with the door not locking behind her. Vos visited Qi'ra shortly after Ottilie and declared that the Corellian was no longer enslaved, moving her to better quarters to take on new types of work for him.

Party on Vandor

"Thank you, Ottilie. Have you been attentive to Dok-Ondar?""Very."
―Qi'ra and Ottilie —  Listen (file info)
In 10 BBY, she served Vos's personal guests at a party on the yacht as it arrived at the planet Vandor. As criminals Tobias Beckett, Han Solo, and Chewbacca arrived via turbolift to the starship's viewing platform, Ottilie carried a tray of drinks past her colleague Margo, who then greeted the trio.
The server was later carrying a tray with three glasses of quanya reserve intended for Count Chrodber of Serenno, but Qi'ra, Vos's lieutenant, took two glasses from the tray as Ottilie strolled past. After passing one on to Solo, Qi'ra thanked Ottilie, asking if the server had been attentive to Dok-Ondar, an Ithorian antiques dealer. Ottilie confirmed she had been very attentive and then left the pair, heading off into the crowd with her one remaining glass. Qi'ra later killed Vos and took his place within Crimson Dawn.

Personality and traits
Ottilie was efficient, observant, and showed just enough initiative to work independently, but not enough to worry her bosses. When asked by Qi'ra, Ottilie claimed to want to be working as a server aboard the First Light, as she believed herself to be good at the job and stated that she would not want to be anywhere else as she was safe aboard the yacht. She was a tall human with black hair, brown eyes, and light skin. Qi'ra considered Ottilie's face to be pretty.

Equipment
While on board the First Light, Ottilie wore a black dress with silver sequins and a gold necklace, earrings, and bracelets.

Behind the scenes
Ottilie was portrayed by Samantha Colley in the 2018 Star Wars Anthology Series film, Solo: A Star Wars Story.
