Polis Massa


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim Territories


Sector
Subterrel sector


System
Polis Massa system


Grid square
K-20


Trade routes
Hydian Way



Physical information

Class
Planetoid


Atmosphere
Type IV


Climate
Formerly arid, now none


Gravity
0.56 standard


Terrain
Asteroids


Points of interest
The Local Dig



Societal information

Native species
Eellayin


Other species
Kallidahin


Major cities
Polis Massa Base


Affiliation
Archaeological Research CouncilAlliance to Restore the Republic


[Source]

Polis Massa was a planetoid in a dense asteroid field located in the Subterrel sector of the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories, far from any major hyperspace lanes. At some point, Polis Massa was a planet located within the system of the same name. The planet was home to a subterranean people called the Eellayin until it was destroyed by ancient superweapons.

History
Five hundred years before the end of the Clone Wars the Archaeological Research Council of Kallidah established a base on one asteroid in order to excavate its surface to study the reasons behind the planet's destruction. The Kallidahin eventually came to be known as Polis Massans. Archaeology was scant and not much was found.
50 years before the Clone Wars, researchers found the ruined city of Wiyentaah. Since then, the local dig was set up and started excavating.
Following the execution of Order 66, Polis Massa became a safe haven for surviving Jedi. Shortly after the lightsaber duel between Obi-Wan Kenobi and Darth Vader on Mustafar, Senator Padmé Amidala gave birth to twins, Luke and Leia, at the medical facility located on Polis Massa. Yoda contacted the deceased Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn at the same time, and Jinn told Yoda that he would teach him how to retain consciousness after death. Postpartum, Leia was given to Senator Bail Organa and Luke was ordered to be handed over to the Lars family under Obi-Wan's custody. Yoda spoke to Obi-Wan with Qui-Gon, informing him he would also be taught how to retain consciousness after death by Jinn.
During the Galactic Civil War, Polis Massa served as an Alliance to Restore the Republic regional headquarters and operations sector. Polis Massa was included in a map of the galaxy that listed safe worlds, starfighter hubs at level five or higher, regional headquarters and operations sectors, and deep space caches.
Vader visiting in quest for vengeance on those who hid his son from him. Following capturing Amidala's tomb on Naboo, Vader traveled to Polis Massa with his death troopers and forensics droid ZED-6-7, searching for answers. Arriving at the ruins of the Polis Massa Base, ZED-6-7 said that Polis Massa had been a rebel base prior to being bombarded by the Empire years earlier. The Amidalans who wanted to kill him, believing he was responsible for the deaths of Amidala and Skywalker, followed him there. Vader deflected the blasts from their ships and his death troopers took control of the cannons and destroyed many of their ships. The Amidalans made an attempt at a ground assault, only to be cut down by Vader and his death troopers. When ZED-6-7 found a damaged Chroon-Tan B-Machine midwifery droid, he accessed her memory and found footage from the day Amidala had been brought there. Vader then watched the recording of Amidala's final words saying there was still good in Anakin. This infuriated Vader and he cut down the droid and returned to Coruscant.

Behind the scenes
Created for the 2005 film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, Polis Massa was originally known as Polis Matza during script development of Revenge of the Sith. Slowed down footage of the asteroid field from Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back was used as a placeholder for Polis Massa in the evolving edit of Episode III. In the DVD commentary for Revenge of the Sith, John Knoll explained that George Lucas specifically designed the look of Polis Massa to be an homage to the look of the Clavius moon base in the 1968 film 2001: A Space Odyssey.
