    
For other uses, see Red One (disambiguation).







Red Leader


Organizational information

Government
Galactic RepublicJedi OrderAlliance to Restore the RepublicNew RepublicResistance


Organization
Monnk's companyRed FlightRed Squadron (Rebel Alliance)Red Squadron (Resistance)


Position type
Pilot callsign


Duties
Leader of Red Squadron/Red Flight


[Source]

Red Leader, Red One or Red 1, was the callsign attributed to the leader of Red Squadron.

History
Clone Wars
Commander Monnk served as Red Leader during the Battle of Mon Cala.
During the Clone Wars, Obi-Wan Kenobi flew as Red Leader during the Battle of Coruscant, for the Galactic Republic.

Galactic Civil War
Liberation of Erso

"Admiral, this is Red Leader. Extraction Team Bravo is still in one piece but the Empire could arrive any minute."
―Samala Loené
In 0 BBY, Red Leader Samala Loené, along with the rest of Red Flight of the Alliance to Restore the Republic were deployed to assist Extraction Team Bravo in the Wobani system against incoming Imperial forces.

Scarif and Yavin

"Red Leader, standing by."
―Garven Dreis, Scarif
     Garven Dreis, Yavin  
Commander Garven Dreis served as Red Leader during the Battle of Scarif and the Battle of Yavin, for the Rebel Alliance until he was shot down by Darth Vader during his trench run on the Empire's first Death Star.

Post-Yavin

"Vader down. I repeat. Darth Vader has been shot down on Vrogas Vas. This is Red Leader calling for assistance from all available alliance forces."
―Arhul Narra, Vrogas Vas
     Arhul Narra, Vrogas Vas  
Following the Battle of Yavin, veteran pilot Commander Arhul Narra was given command of Red Squadron and served as Red Leader during various battles that included a skirmish in the Kiax Nebula, a mission to Giju, the Battle of Vrogas Vas, but was killed in an Imperial ambush shortly before the Battle of Hoth around 3 ABY.

Post-Hoth

"All right. And are you ready, Red Leader?""Yes."
―The Contessa and Wedge Antilles
Following the evacuation of Hoth in 3 ABY, Wedge Antilles was given command of the reformed Red Squadron and promoted to commander by the Contessa, and served as Red Leader during an attack on an asteroid mining station.

Elessia

"This is Red Leader--All fighters, on me--we need to make an attack run on Seventh Division's cruiser, push those TIEs back."
―Luke Skywalker, Inner Rim
Sometime after, Commander Luke Skywalker assumed the callsign Red Leader during a battle at Elessia, when Ellian Zahra's forces attacked the Alliance's Seventh Division.

Endor

"Red Leader standing by."
―Wedge Antilles, Endor
In 4 ABY, Commander Wedge Antilles again served as Red Leader during the climactic Battle of Endor.



 This article is a stub about a military subject. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
