    







Royal Guard


Organizational information

Commanding officer(s)
General Tandin (Clone Wars)


Staff officer(s)
Unnamed commander


Headquarters
Unifar Temple, IzizThe nest, Onderon highlands (briefly)


Location(s)
Onderon



Other information

Affiliation
Onderon Royal FamilyGalactic RepublicSith EmpireConfederacy of Independent Systems


[Source]



"It seems they're only targeting the droid army. If you allow the Royal Onderon Militia to assume control of security, the terrorists may stop and discuss terms."
―General Tandin, to King Sanjay Rash
The Royal Guard of Onderon, also known as Iziz city guard and later as the Royal Onderon Milita, was the bodyguard force that served the King of Onderon.

History
Republic and Sith conflict
     A Royal Guard commander.  
By 3627 BBY, the Royal Guard was divided during a political crisis, with many serving as the protectors of the capital city Iziz—under the Noble council and the Galactic Republic—and others serving King Petryph with the support of the Republic's enemies, the Sith Empire.

Clone Wars
After the ousting of King Ramsis Dendup, General Tandin, the leader of the Royal Onderon Militia, swore his force's allegiance to the new king, Sanjay Rash. However, when Rash attempted to publicly execute Dendup, Tandin led the Royal Onderon Militia against the crown, rescuing Dendup and siding with the Onderon rebels against Rash's regime, which was being backed by General Kalani and the Confederacy of Independent Systems.
Later, they joined the rebels in the Onderon highlands, and served as cavalry against the droid assault. Initially, their lances and mounts overwhelmed the battle droid forces and they proved to be competent soldiers in battle. Their lances, however, could do nothing against the air superiority of the Confederacy. Later, two of them escorted the king in an escape attempt, but were trailed by Commando Droids. They attempted to defeat the droids, but their short-range lance burst could not pierce the body armor of the droids in enough time before they were killed.

Equipment
During the Clone Wars, guards wielded laser lances and wore light armor. Additionally, they rode mounts into battle.
