Saleucami


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim TerritoriesFoundry of the Confederacy (Clone Wars)The Slice


Sector
Suolriep sector


System
Saleucami system


Suns
Stisste


Moons
3:CatherJosVictori


Grid square
S-8


Trade routes
Talcene Transit



Physical information

Class
Terrestrial


Diameter
14,920 kilometers


Climate
AridTemperate


Terrain
CavesDesertsMountainsSwampsVolcanoes


Points of interest
Lawquane's Farm


Flora
Greater cake treeTowering Bith


Fauna
Carrier butterflyEopieFireflyNexuNunaReekSaleucami batSaleucami buzzardStarklebird



Societal information

Native species
Human


Other species
GotalGranRodianTwi'lekWeequayWroonians


Primary language(s)
Galactic Basic StandardWroonian


Population
1.4 billion


Major cities
Saleucami town


Affiliation
Galactic RepublicCommerce GuildConfederacy of Independent Systems (temporarily)Galactic Empire


[Source]



"So... I see the war has finally made its way out here, and I guess I can expect a visit from some droids soon."
―Cut Lawquane during the Clone Wars
Saleucami, a name that translated into "oasis," was a planet located in the Saleucami system, within the Suolriep sector of the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories. During the Clone Wars, its inhabitants wished to stay out of the conflict, though war would eventually reach the backwater planet. Although Republic forces were able to drive the Separatists from Saleucami, it became the site of an invasion and one of the final battles of the war. Jedi Master Stass Allie was killed on her BARC speeder bike by Clone Marshal Commander Neyo at the start of the Great Jedi Purge.

Description
Saleucami was a temperate world with a mix of environments including arid deserts and swamps. Its name meant "oasis."

History
Clone Wars

"Saleucami has fallen, and Master Vos moved his troops to Boz Pity."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Anakin Skywalker
     The tree-covered landscape of Saleucami  
During the Clone Wars, the settlers who lived on Saleucami hoped to avoid the war. clone trooper Cut Lawquane and his gunship crashed on Saleucami. There, Cut deserted from the Grand Army of the Republic when the battle droids executed his fellow troopers and fled. Cut then married Suu Lawquane, made a home for them and her two children there.
Confederate General Grievous and his fleet went to Saleucami along with his prisoner, Jedi Master Eeth Koth. There, Grievous awaited the arrival of Jedi Generals Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker. While Kenobi fought Grievous, Skywalker and Adi Gallia rescued Koth from Grievous's Recusant-class light destroyer. Despite Skywalker and Gallia rescuing Koth, Grievous was able to escape from his duel with Kenobi. Grievous and his forces then attempted to land, but debris from Kenobi's light cruiser caused him and his battle droids to crash-land in Saleucami's wetlands aboard escape pods. Grievous and what remained of his forces then regrouped and searched for intact escape pods. Kenobi landed several detachments of the 212th Battalion and 501st Legion to find Grievous.
While Kenobi and Cody took the AT-TEs to find the escape pods, Rex and his men then took their BARC speeders through the wetlands. They then came under attack by two droid commando snipers. Rex was badly wounded and his men had to leave at the Lawquane farmstead. It was there Rex met Cut and believed that he should turn him in for desertion. However, after Cut's family and home came under attack by droid commandos, Rex decided to leave him with his family and not report him. Kenobi on the other hand, was unable to capture Grievous when he found an escape pod and made his escape. The B1-series battle droid R0-GR was also involved in the battle, which he recalled as causing five agonizing months. At some point, the enhanced clones of Clone Force 99—Hunter, Wrecker, CT-9904 "Crosshair," and Tech—visited Lawquane.
The 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and Commander Mekedrix were involved in another battle of Saleucami. Upon uncovering a Separatist plan, Kenobi proposed moving Republic forces through the Anoat system and then to Saleucami. Saleucami eventually found itself in the thick of the war. The Separatists launched an invasion of Saleucami, which the smuggler Has Obitt narrowly missed. A world nominally under the Confederacy's control, it was nevertheless valuable to the Separatists, making Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine dub it a part of the Triad of Evil. When the Siege of Saleucami occurred during the Outer Rim Sieges over the secret projects the CIS was rumored to be running on world, the lengthy campaign resulted in a Republic victory towards the end of the war. When Darth Sidious initiated Order 66, Clone Marshal Commander Neyo killed Jedi Master Stass Allie while they patrolled the planet on BARC speeders.

Imperial rule

"The war is over. With peace comes opportunity and prosperity for all."
―Vice Admiral Rampart, via holographic message
     Cut in the new Imperial spaceport  
Shortly after the Empire formed, even after the war itself had finished, the clone troopers remained on Saleucami instead of pulling out, enforcing the control of the newly-established Galactic Empire, which was interested in Saleucami. Citizens found themselves forced to register for chain codes and had their starships taken away by impound vessels. In order to get offworld on a ship, citizens needed to register for a chain code.
Around the same time, Rex visited Lawquane to tell him what had happened. As the Imperial Military began to lock down Saleucami, Lawquane planned to move his family off of the planet before he was discovered as a defector. The day after Rex departed, Clone Force 99 arrived. Introducing Cut to their new companions, CT-1409 "Echo" and Omega, Hunter wanted to learn how Cut had stayed hidden so well, as his squad were fugitives. However, their mission quickly turned into helping the family escape the planet before they were discovered. Saleucami was also the homeworld of Sergeant Warda Gojun of the Galactic Empire's 71st GAV Battalion.

Behind the scenes
Although the booklet "Mustafar and Other Planets in the Outer Rim" stated that Saleucami returned to its uninteresting status when the Clone Wars ended and the Empire rose, the StarWars.com Databank had previously established the Empire was interested in the planet and tried to bring it under control, with "Cut and Run" showing that the Empire took marshal control of Saleucami directly after the war ended. This article assumes "Mustafar and Other Outer Rim Planets" is incorrect.
