    

"Okay, scouts, find me a way down there, quiet-like."
―Anakin Skywalker, to Felucians
     A Rebel Alliance scout observes an Imperial installation  
Scouts were individuals who surveyed, patrolled, or explored areas of land or space. Many groups and factions utilized scouts to help achieve their goals, such as the Galactic Republic, the Galactic Empire, and the Alliance to Restore the Republic.

History
Scouts utilized all throughout galactic history by groups, militaries, and factions to survey and explore specific areas of land or space for exploratory or military purposes. The Gungan Grand Army used Gungan scouts who rode swift beasts called kaadu into combat. In 32 BBY, these scouts participated in and helped win the Battle of Naboo.

The Clone Wars
     Clone scout troopers on Kashyyyk.  
During the Clone Wars, from 22 BBY to 19 BBY, scouts were utilized heavily on both sides of the war. The Galactic Republic's clone army included a regiment that had clone trooper scouts, known as Advanced Recon Force Scout Trooper. The two best scouts in the regiment were considered to be a commander and a lieutenant. Additionally, the 41st Elite Corps contained its own scout battalion, led by Jedi Yoda and Luminara Unduli, along with Clone Commander Gree. The battalion contained of mostly Clone scout troopers. The Republic occasionally enlisted the help of planet natives for scouting purposes, such as on Felucia, in which several Felucians served as scouts during the Second Battle of Felucia. Also helping the Republic was Wollivan, an interstellar scout who blazed hyperspace trails between the far-flung stars of the galaxy.
The Confederacy of Independent Systems also utilized scouts. Battle droids were often given the task of scouting for enemies on planets they controlled.

The Galactic Civil War

"Our scout ships have reached Dantooine. They found the remains of a Rebel base, but they estimate that it has been deserted for some time. They are now conducting an extensive search of the surrounding systems."
―Siward Cass —  Listen (file info)
     An Imperial scout trooper  
When the Republic transformed into the Galactic Empire, they continued to use scouts in the newly created Stormtrooper Corps. These troopers, known as Scout troopers, were often tasked with patrolling planet wildernesses. They were trained to ride 74-Z speeder bikes and occasionally taught how to use sniper rifles, such as the E-11s and DLT-19x targeting blaster. Some of the best trained scout troopers were selected to become Imperial sharpshooters. Occasionally, regular Imperial troops were assigned to scout various locations for Rebel activity.
The Rebel Alliance also had scouts to help watch out for Imperials and keep an eye on their activities. A resident of the Ewok Bright Tree Village, Wicket W. Warrick was a scout who helped the Rebel Alliance win the Battle of Endor



 This article is a stub. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
