Sio Bibble


Biographical information

Homeworld
Naboo



Descriptive information

Species
Human (Naboo)


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Height
1.79 meters (5 ft, 10 in)


Hair color
White


Eye color
Blue


Skin color
Light



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic RepublicRoyal House of NabooNaboo Royal Advisory Council


[Source]



"This invasion will gain you nothing. We're a democracy. The people have decided…"
―Governor Sio Bibble
Sio Bibble was the human male governor of Naboo and a member of the Royal Advisory Council during the final years of the Galactic Republic. He stepped down as governor during the early days of the Galactic Empire, which then replaced the position of Naboo's governor with the new role of Moff.

Biography
Early career
Sio Bibble was born on Naboo prior to the Invasion of Naboo. Bibble was elected as the governor of Naboo during King Veruna's reign. During Queen Amidala's coronation, he and the Naboo Royal Advisory Council closed the Palace Plaza for a parade. Despite being initially critical of Amidala, he soon came to respect her.

Invasion of Naboo
     Bibble on the Royal Advisory Council after losing contact with Senator Palpatine.  
In 32 BBY, Senator Palpatine contacted the Royal Advisory Council only to lose communication. Bibble was one of the first to suspect there would be an invasion. However, Queen Amidala refused to condone any action that would lead them to war. Later, Bibble's suspicions proved correct when Naboo was invaded by the Trade Federation. Bibble was arrested along with other people on Naboo at that time. Then, Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi came to rescue them. Queen Amidala (really her decoy Sabé) agreed that she should plea to the Senate. Bibble was on high hopes that Senator Palpatine might help them. However, Bibble decided to stay behind to protect his people. Later, Queen Amidala did free Naboo. Bibble attended Jinn's funeral, who was killed in the battle that liberated Naboo. Then, he attended the celebration of Naboo's victory, where Queen Amidala handed the Globe of Peace to Boss Rugor Nass.

The Separatist Crisis
Bibble continued to serve as governor under Amidala's successor, Queen Réillata. In 22 BBY, he attended a Council meeting. They talked about how the Separatist Crisis might become a war and then redirected the conversation to Senator Amidala, who was in danger of being killed and had to hide on Naboo with a bodyguard, Anakin Skywalker.

The Clone Wars
     Bibble continued to serve through the Clone Wars.  
Queen Jamillia was succeeded by Queen Neeyutnee by 21 BBY, whom Bibble also served.
In 20 BBY, he greeted Palpatine upon his return to Naboo and attended the Festival of Light. That night, bounty hunters tried to kidnap Palpatine, but their plans were thwarted by Kenobi (who was disguised as Rako Hardeen at that time). The next morning, Bibble was put in a protection group along with Queen Neeyutnee and Senator Amidala.

Mission to Bardotta
In 19 BBY, Bibble went with Senator Amidala to the Galactic Senate when Queen Julia of Bardotta contacted the Republic. Palpatine presented the queen the people he chose to go to Bardotta: Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan and Senator Amidala of Naboo. However, the queen specifically said she wanted Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks of Naboo to go, puzzling everyone.

Imperial Era
     Bibble continued as governor into the Imperial Era.  
Sio Bibble attended the funeral of Padmé Amidala shortly after the formation of the Galactic Empire. Around that time, he chose to retire as governor. However, instead of an election being held, in which former Royal Handmaiden Saché was heavily favored to win, the Empire replaced the position with that of Imperial governor, and appointed Quarsh Panaka to the position.

Personality and traits

"I guess there's a reason Bibble keeps getting elected."
―Rabé
Sio Bibble was a dedicated public servant who served as governor. He did not always agree with Queen Amidala, but he supported her and deferred to her judgement. He admired Amidala's lofty goals but did not always share her optimism. He had influence among her other advisers.
Bibble was a brave and defiant man in the face of great danger, as he demonstrated when Viceroy Nute Gunray from the Trade Federation invaded Theed, though he was completely opposed to violence. Bibble was also known to speak his mind on several important matters like the Separatist Crisis or Gunray's constant trials in the Supreme Courts of the Galactic Republic for his actions.More than anything, Bibble cared to an extent for the safety of Queen Amidala as demonstrated during the Trade Federation's invasion of Theed.

Behind the scenes
     Concept art of Sio Bibble by Iain McCaig.  
Sio Bibble was played by Oliver Ford Davies in the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. Davies then reprised the role again in 2002's Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones and 2005's Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith.
Concept art for Sio Bibble was developed by Iain McCaig. For Bibble's name, however, it was Katie Lucas, daughter of director George Lucas, the one who came up with the name.
During the principal photography of Attack of the Clones in Italy, Davies was unable to attend, as he was shooting another film and was in a play. Nine months after Episode II's principal photography had ended, Davies went to reprise the role for a scene shot on a bluescreen stage, and was then digitally inserted into the scene shot in Italy.
