Star Wars: Complete Locations

Attribution information

Author(s)
Simon BeecroftKerrie DoughertyJason FryJames LucenoKristin Lund


Illustrator(s)
Richard ChasemoreHans JenssenKemp Remillard



Publication information

Publisher
DK Publishing


Publication date
September 27, 2016


Type
HardcovereBook


Pages
192


ISBN
9781465452726


Series
Inside the Worlds of


[Source]

Star Wars: Complete Locations is a canon reference book and a reissue of the 2005 edition of the same name, also including new content from Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens. The title was published by Dorling Kindersley on September 27, 2016.

Publisher's summary
 Star Wars(TM): Complete Locations brings together the key buildings, environments, and battle scenes from the Star Wars saga in a single, definitive guide. This updated edition features four new cross-section spreads and a behind-the scenes look at how the artwork is crafted.
Packed with more than 50 full-color, intricate cross-section artwork and 3-D maps, Star Wars(TM): Complete Locations is an amazing visual guide into the incredible worlds and locations of a galaxy far, far away….
From the towering skyscrapers of Coruscant to the terrifying technology of the Death Star, see in astonishing detail the numerous worlds, bases, cities, landscapes, and battles from the Star Wars galaxy. Discover the secrets of the Jedi Temple Complex and tour Yoda's House on Dagobah.
With brand-new cross-section artwork and sneak peek behind-the-scenes pages showing how the amazing artworks are crafted, Star Wars: Complete Locations is the definitive one-volume collection that takes you inside the world of the Star Wars saga.

Continuity
The name of the Abyssin species is misspelled "Abbysin" in this book, although author Jason Fry has explained it's merely a typo.
Coruscant is said to have 5217 levels, though it actually has 5127. This was corrected in later releases.
Complete Locations states that the Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor was created in response to the Invasion of Naboo. However, the comic book Star Wars (2015) 26, set before the Invasion of Naboo, featured Delta 7s.
Endor's population is said to be "Unknown." However, Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know previously stated it to be over 30,000,000 Ewoks.
Geonosis' population is stated to be 100 million whereas Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know states it to be 100 billion. Complete Locations also states there was no population on Geonosis during the Imperial Era. This contradicts the Star Wars Rebels episode "Ghosts of Geonosis," where Klik-Klak, the sole survivor of the Galactic Empire's sterilization of Geonosis, is protecting a Queen egg.
The planet profile for Kashyyyk mistakenly uses an image of Dagobah.
Lott Dod is stated to have been present during the First Battle of Geonosis in the archducal box of the Petranaki Arena. Though Episode II identified that Neimoidian as Dod, the Neimoidian is assumed to be Rune Haako.
While Complete Locations states that Naboo only has one moon, Mace Windu mentions "spice miners on the moons of Naboo" in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of The Clones. Thrawn: Alliances later stated that Naboo has three moons.
King Ars Veruna is said to have reigned for thirteen years. However, Queen's Shadow later established that Naboo's monarch could reign for a maximum of four years.
Yoda's Hut is stated to have been destroyed by Dagobah's torrential rains after Yoda's death. However, the 2015 reference book Ultimate Star Wars previously stated that it was reclaimed by the swamp and the many creatures Yoda befriended during his exile. After being asked about this, Leland Chee responded that the information of both sources can be canonical, explaining that the hut could have been reclaimed right after Yoda's death but destroyed a hundred years later.
Yoda's lightsaber is revealed to have been stored in a box at Yoda's Hut in 3 ABY. However, the comic Darth Vader (2017) 1 states that the lightsaber was destroyed during the celebration of the Jedi Order's eradication in 19 BBY. When asked about this, writer Charles Soule mused that perhaps Yoda built a new one, that he had more than one or that Darth Sidious built a fake to make a point, while Lucasfilm Story Group's Matt Martin clarified that they are aware of it but it isn't an error as Yoda surely had more than a few lightsabers during his lifetime. The discrepancy was solved in The Book of Boba Fett episode "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger" with Yoda having another lightsaber in his possession.
The book mentions that after seeing Anakin's lightsaber whilst in Ben Kenobi's home, C-3PO's protocol programming required him to request he shut down to protect his ex-owner's secrets. Pablo Hidalgo confirmed this information was supposed to have been cut from the book.
Media
Editions
ISBN 9781465452726; September 27, 2016; DK Publishing; US hardcover
ISBN 9780744046267; September 27, 2016; DK Publishing; US eBook
Cover gallery
Solicitation coverFront coverCzech cover for Planety, místa a bitvy