
For other uses, see Bad Batch (disambiguation).







Star Wars: The Bad Batch

Production information

Format
Animated


Episode count
47


No. of seasons
3


Network(s)
Disney+


First aired
May 4, 2021


Last aired
May 1, 2024



Attribution information

Creator(s)
Dave Filoni (created by & developed by)Jennifer Corbett (developed by)


Writer(s)
Tamara Becher-WilkinsonJennifer CorbettDave FiloniDamani JohnsonMatt MichnovetzAmanda Rose MuñozGursimran SandhuChristian Taylor


Director(s)
Brad Rau (Supervising director)Steward LeeSaul RuizNathaniel Villanueva


Executive producer(s)
Dave FiloniAthena PortilloJennifer CorbettBrad RauCarrie Beck (Co-executive producer)


Starring
Dee Bradley BakerMichelle Ang



Chronological information

Timeline
c. 19 BBY


[Source]



"Giving new and existing fans the final chapter of Star Wars: The Clone Wars has been our honor at Disney+, and we are overjoyed by the global response to this landmark series. While The Clone Wars may have come to its conclusion, our partnership with the groundbreaking storytellers and artists at Lucasfilm Animation is only beginning. We are thrilled to bring Dave Filoni's vision to life through the next adventures of the Bad Batch."
―Agnes Chu announcing The Bad Batch
Star Wars: The Bad Batch is an animated television series that acts as both a sequel to and a spin-off of Star Wars: The Clone Wars. It focuses on the squad known as Clone Force 99, a band of genetically enhanced clone troopers. It was announced on July 13, 2020 and premiered on Disney+ on May 4, 2021. The first season has sixteen episodes, and its musical score was composed by Kevin Kiner, who previously worked on Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels.
The series stars Dee Bradley Baker as all male members of The Bad Batch, including Hunter, Wrecker, Tech, Echo, and Crosshair, as well as Michelle Ang as Omega.

Official description
The series follows the elite and experimental clones of the Bad Batch (first introduced in The Clone Wars) as they find their way into a rapidly changing galaxy in the immediate aftermath of the Clone War. Members of Bad Batch (Clone Force 99) — a unique squad of clones who vary genetically from their brothers in the Clone Army — each possess a singular exceptional skill, which makes them extraordinarily effective soldiers and a formidable crew. In the post-Clone Wars era, they will take on daring mercenary missions as they struggle to stay afloat and find new purpose.

Development

"During our first year on Disney+, our animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, saw tremendous success with its epic seventh and final season. Building on the legacy of The Clone Wars, our new animated series The Bad Batch, follows the specialist commandos of Clone Force 99 as they embark on new missions in a rapidly changing galaxy."
―Kathleen Kennedy, on The Bad Batch during the Disney Investor Day 2020
The Bad Batch was announced on July 13, 2020, along with the producers and writers attached to the show. Dave Filoni, Athena Yvette Portillo, Brad Rau, and Jennifer Corbett were named as executive producers. Carrie Beck also served as co-executive producer and Josh Rimes as producer. Rau also served as supervising director while Corbett was named as the series' head writer.
On August 5, 2021, the series was renewed for a second season.
On April 10, 2023, the series was renewed for a third and final season.

Marketing
The first trailer for the first season of the Bad Batch was unveiled at a Disney investors presentation on December 10, 2020. A second trailer was released on March 30, 2021.
On May 29, Lucasfilm released the official trailer for the series' second season at the Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022.

Release
The first episode of The Bad Batch premiered on Disney+ on May 4, 2021 with a 74-minute premiere episode. The first season ran for 16 episodes until August 13, 2021.
The second season ran for 16 episodes from January 4 to March 29, 2023.
The third season premiered on February 21, 2024.

Credits

By type 


Cast

Uncredited cast

Crew

Uncredited crew

Special thanks


Cast



Michelle Ang as Omega
Andy Allo as Lyana Hazard
Dee Bradley Baker as The Bad Batch, Captain Grey, clone troopers, Cut, Captain Rex, Captain Howzer, Gregor, Captain Wilco Commander Cody, Cade, Slip, Scorch, Ice vulture, Mayday, Veetch, Fireball, Nemec
Robin Atkin Downes as Cham Syndulla
Ness Bautista as ES-03
Bob Bergen as Lama Su, Droid
Steve Blum as Lanse Crowder, Mister Eenta, Villager
Sharon Duncan-Brewster as Senator Pamlo
Corey Burton as Cad Bane, Gobi Glie
Sian Clifford as GS-8
Noshir Dalal as Vice Admiral Rampart, Stormtrooper, Axis Leader, Pantoran Guard, Stormtrooper #1, Stormtrooper #2
Ben Diskin as AZI-3, Captain Pearce, Imperial Tech, Stormtrooper #4
Hector Elizondo as Romar Adell
Dave Filoni as Chopper
Crispin Freeman as Lieutenant Nolan
Nika Futterman as Fauja and Shaeeah
Emilio Garcia-Sanchez as ES-01
Seth Green as Todo 360
Grey Griffin as CG-67
Jennifer Hale as Commerce Guild Senator, Riyo Chuchi
Daheli Hall as ES-04
Max C. Hampton as Stormtrooper
Tina Huang as ES-02
Ernie Hudson as Grini Millegi
Keisha Castle-Hughes as Emerie Karr
Brigitte Kali as Trace Martez
JP Karliak as Venomor, Cartel Droid #2
Andrew Kishino as Saw Gerrera
Phil LaMarr as Senator Orn Free Taa, Bail Organa, Senator Riduli
Jonathan Lipow as Announcer, Gungi, Trandoshan Tank Commander, Cartel Droid #1
Vanessa Marshall as Hera Syndulla
Ian McDiarmid as Emperor Palpatine
Jameelah McMillan as Halle Burtoni
Max Mittelman as Governor Grotton
VyVy Nguyen as Serin
Liam O'Brien as Bolo and Raney
Rena Owen as Taun We
Archie Panjabi as Depa Billaba
Rhea Perlman as Ciddarin Scaleback
Cara Pifko as Suu
Freddie Prinze Jr. as Caleb Dume
Sam Riegel as Ketch
Elizabeth Rodriguez as Rafa Martez
Ben Schwartz as TAY-0
Helen Sadler as Doctor Scalder
Alexander Siddig as Senator Avi Singh
Jimmi Simpson as Doctor Royce Hemlock
Kath Soucie as Jek
Wanda Sykes as Phee Genoa
Stephen Stanton as Wilhuff Tarkin, Mas Amedda, Imperial Pilot, Stormtrooper #5
Tom Taylorson as Roland Durand
Tasia Valenza as Tawni Ames
Ming-Na Wen as Fennec Shand
Bonnie Wild as PA System
Imari Williams as Shep Hazard, Stormtrooper #3
Matthew Wood as Bib Fortuna, Battle Droids,
Gwendoline Yeo as Nala Se
Ferelith Young as Eleni Syndulla
Shelby Young as Captain Bragg, Lenk, Yanna, Axis Droids

Crew



Dave Filoni – Created by, developed by, executive producer
Jennifer Corbett – Developed by, executive producer, writer
Athena Portillo – Executive producer
Brad Rau – Executive producer, Supervising director
Carrie Beck – Co-executive producer
Josh Rimes – Producer
Tamara Becher-Wilkinson – Writer
Damani Johnson – Writer
Matt Michnovetz – Writer
Amanda Rose Muñoz – Writer
Gursimran Sandhu – Writer
Christian Taylor
Kevin Kiner – Composer




Seasons


Season

Logo

Episodes

First airdate

Last airdate


1




16


May 4, 2021


August 13, 2021


2




16


January 4, 2023


March 29, 2023


3



15

February 21, 2024

May 1, 2024
