Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds

Production information

Developer(s)
Ensemble StudiosLucasArts


Publisher(s)
LucasArtsAspyr MediaElectronic Arts SquareDisney Interactive Studios


Release date
November 13, 2001


Game engine
Genie Engine


Genre
Real-time strategy


Modes
Single player campaignsSingle player skirmishMultiplayer


Rating(s)
ESRB: Teen (T)  USK: 12


Platform(s)
PC, Mac


[Source]

Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds is a 2001 real-time strategy game, developed by Ensemble Studios and LucasArts, who also published the game in North America. The Japanese version published by Electronic Arts and Squaresoft Joint Venture Electronic Arts Square. It was released on November 13, 2001.
The game was built on the Genie Engine that was used to build the Age of Empires II game. An expansion pack was released in 2002, featuring elements from Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. Later that year, both Galactic Battlegrounds and Clone Campaigns were released in a box set, Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds Saga.

Plot summary
Episode I campaigns
The original game has six campaigns. Some of the missions represent battles from the movies, like the Battle of Hoth.

The first campaign (the tutorial) centers on Attichitcuk, his son Chewbacca, and Chewbacca's cousin Shoran and their quest to rid Alaris Prime of the Trade Federation. You are guided through the tutorial by Qui-Gon Jinn.
Alaris Prime colonial war
Attack on Attichitcuk's camp
Attack on the Wookiee command center
Skirmish at the gundark nest
Rescue of Attichitcuk
Attack on the Trade Federation outpost
Attack on the Trade Federation listening array
Battle for Alaris Prime
     Naboo Security Officers outside a Naboo city  
The second campaign from Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace is that of the Trade Federation. It follows OOM-9, the de facto droid leader of the Trade Federation's army.
Battle of Naboo
Subjugation of Parrlay
Capture of Harte Secur
Invasion of Spinnaker
Fall of Theed
Naboo Swamp Battle
Battle of the Great Grass Plains (non-canon, alternate history simulation)
     A Gungan establishment  
The third campaign is that of the Gungans, centered first on Boss Gallo, then Boss Rugor Nass, the leader of the Gungans at the time of Episode I.
War of the Gungan tribes
Battle of Otoh Sancture
Battle of the Forest Cities
Battle of Spearhead
Battle of Naboo
Second Battle of Spinnaker
Liberation of Harte Secur
Battle of Theed (non-canon)
Episode IV, V, and VI campaigns
The fourth campaign of the standard game is the campaign of the Galactic Empire. Darth Vader is your main character in this campaign, and the events take place just before and during Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back.
Evacuation of Yavin
Occupation of Reytha
Battle of Zaloriis
Battle of Hoth
Occupation of Bespin
Battle of Endor around the Shield generator (non-canon)
The fifth campaign is the campaign of the Rebel Alliance. Your main character this time around varies from level to level, but Princess Leia Organa appears in all the missions. In the early ones, Jedi Master Echuu, and later with Luke Skywalker. The events of this campaign are outside the scope of the movies, not including the battle of Endor and Hoth.
Krantian Civil War
Battle of Geddes
Battle of Hoth
Battle of Endor
Battle of Hanoon
Battle in the Silken Asteroids (before Episode IV)
The sixth and final campaign is the Wookiee campaign. This campaign takes place after Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, during which time the Imperial remnants are trying to keep the Empire together, and have attacked Kashyyyk. The main characters of this campaign are Han Solo and Chewbacca. Attichitcuk appears, as do Lando Calrissian, Shoran and Luke Skywalker.
Liberation of Kashyyyk
Liberation of Kessel
The Royal Naboo also appear in the Gungan and the Trade Federation campaigns but have no campaign on their own. However, they are playable in standard gameplay, multiplayer, and the scenario editor.
Gameplay
At commencement of the game, each player can choose one of the available factions and will begin a typical game with a command center and a handful of workers. The idea of the game is to gather resources, build units and research technologies to ultimately conquer ones opponents. When a certain amount of resources have been stockpiled, they can be used to advance to the next technology level which opens up new construction and research options, as well as unlocking newer and upgraded units.
If the game begins with the First Tech Level, each player is limited in what can be built. Aside from a few basic troopers who are fairly useless except as scouts, most construction options revolve around the player's economy and getting that off the ground. Once 500 food has been stockpiled, the player will have the option to advance to the Second Tech Level. This will open up more buildings and units forming basic armies. 800 food and 200 nova will allow advancement to the Third Tech Level, where combat can become truly three dimensional with the ability to construct air units. 1000 food and 800 nova will let the player advance to the Fourth and final Tech level, where expensive upgrades are available but the benefits they bring to one's faction are often worth the excessive cost.
Each worker unit, which often takes the form of labor droids, Wookiees, or whatever suits the player's faction, can be individually controlled by the player and they can be ordered to gather resources, construct buildings and even attack enemy units and buildings.

     Muja fruit bushes  
There are four types of resources, all of which need to be gathered at a steady rate in order to supply a constant flow of resources: Carbon is used primarily to construct buildings and is often used in technology research and can be found in trees or in "carbon deposits." Food is used to help train units and can also be used to a lesser extent in technology research. Food can be gathered from muja fruits, fish, hunting or farms, and from nerfs or banthas housed in an animal nursery. Nova crystals are used primarily in technology research and to train some units. They are also used as currency at the marketplace, where buy and sell prices are listed in nova crystal value. The crystals are primarily mined but can also be traded for other resources at the marketplace. Trade caravans can deposit a fixed amount of crystal between two marketplaces and holocrons can provide a steady stream if housed at a Jedi Temple or Sith Temple. Finally, there is ore, which is mostly used to construct fixed defensive structures like turrets, fortresses and anti-air defenses as well as in some technology research. Ore is often the scarcest resource on the map, and the player will have to buy extra at the marketplace once exhausted.

Cheats
While playing, press Enter to open up the chat screen. Type one of the following codes and press Enter again. Some codes only work when you highlight a unit.

forceexplore – Entire map is explored.
forcesight – Remove fog of war.
forcebuild – Building, harvest, and research time becomes instant. (This happens to all teams, including the enemy.)
forcecarbon – Get 1,000 carbon.
forcenova, forcenovacrystals – Get 1,000 nova.
forceore – Get 1,000 ore.
forcefood – Get 1,000 food.
tarkin – Destroy everything belonging to all other players
darkside(1-8) – Destroy a specific civilization according to their # (1-8).
skywalker – Win the battle.
simonsays – Get Simon the Killer Ewok.
scaryneighbor – Get a Bongo Marauder.
tantive iv - Get a Rebel Blockade Runner.
that's no moon - Get a Death Star.
imperial entanglements - Get a Star Destroyer.
Easter eggs
     Simon, the killer Ewok  
Some levels also featured some easter eggs: In some marginal and hard-to-reach places (like mountain peaks, or areas behind trees that have to be harvested in order to reveal), some well-known characters can be found if the player decides to explore the corners of the map with air units:

On Naboo, during the second Trade Federation mission there is a place where you find Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Jar Jar Binks.
In the third mission of the Gungan campaign, Luke Skywalker, Yoda and R2-D2 can be spotted standing near Yoda's hut.
In the fourth Gungan mission OOM-9 can be spotted in the eastern corner of the map.
On Tatooine, C-3PO and R2-D2 can be found next to an escape pod.
On the first two Imperial missions, Mara Jade can be found somewhere on the map, though this requires cheat codes and she runs away when seen. Darth Vader will sometimes ask, "What is this?" when the player locates Jade.
Simon and Bongo Marauder appear when cheat codes are entered (see above).
One of the game's taunts is a parody of Samuel L. Jackson's line in Pulp Fiction: "Pigs are filthy animals. I don't eat filthy animals." In the game, "pigs" becomes "banthas."
A secret level can be found in the first Wookiee campaign; if the player advances to Tech Level 3, they can build a fighter, then pilot it to the far right of the map. This will uncover Obi-Wan Kenobi and Captain Quarsh Panaka, and will begin a mission to rescue Padmé Amidala from Tusken Raiders.
When you click on an Imperial trooper he will occasionally say the phrase "THX-1138 ready, sir." This is a reference to THX-1138, the first movie made by George Lucas.
When you click on an AT-AT walker, the pilot will sometimes respond by saying "They won't be back for the sequel," which breaks the fourth wall.
Aurebesh texts
Galactic Battlegrounds also contains many text easter eggs, found in the game's briefing/debriefing screens. While many of the screens contain gibberish phrases, some seem to be inside jokes between LucasArts employees. Notable excerpts are presented here by civilization:

Gungan: boss gallo/he has a big robe/one four/mesa sicka gungan guys; jerb wi 2 wjbe eks oh and by the way this is boss rogoe/a slave gungan why did george have to bring jar jar back in ep2?; so sad its my last day/i am going to miss this/its a game i hope like it; the two jedi in the gungan city hey did anyone see any gungan women?; orb of peace/naboo is victorious/long live naboo/PCP
Wookiees (Colonization of Alaris Prime): chewie/jp i love you/two one/harvesting food/status: not done yet/tomorrow for sure; image one/one two/wookiees approach/status; guarded heavy/will move forward cautiously/end transimission; obi-wan's lightsaber is long and dngerous/two hands are better than one/the ring; one two four/final town buildings/qui-gon/status: obi-wan is lost/check out the trees/hes in there
Trade Federation: teh tf tanks dstryd the the buildings/-dstry-capture-pillage; the search for the gungans has ended/c-whats d-up; -warning-droids no longer functioning
Galactic Empire: ooold/vader speaks/the lord of the sith/dodonna learns his lesson; Salvage the rebel base--take all survivors to command/processing for detention block b; mara jade occupation: bad ass/location death star code red surveylance; stormtroopers bad guys/s--jim tudner f--bob billy newman b--jack burton k--mike terpsta j--chris williams l--paul c pierce f--haden blackman; [The names of Paul Pierce and John Paul Soto appear at the bottom of all screens in the Imperial campaign.]
Rebel Alliance: random troopers/joey russo/this is echu shen can yog guess it really is; [Screen displays two X-wings flying over a forest] bob see any deer/yeah this is more fun than those banthas/not yet remember year when got that buck with my proton torpedo; all your base are belong to us; -you are here (pl)ease keep all (han)ds inside the boat at all times; yes its an eye ball uh 282n good old rotj; leia and luke looking on at rebels/what will they do who knows: ben kenobi does; boom yey the empire bast is one fire too bad its not jar jar/and this is fire shooting out of the doorw ohh ahh; the rebel transport ship otherwise known as a tunaboat/kiptan the boat smells like fish again/this will be earth in a few million years who would have ever thought; future site of dr. evil's new asteroid base...ohh haha
Wookiees (Liberation of Kashyyyk): han chewie buddies/solo action status: huge/gone today; bowcaster safety lock/chewie will kick your ass; run chewie/one two three/wookiee transports sail across the water; sttus: safe and secure/next mission comb matted fur; many parties among the trees/hiding ewok babies/wookiee party house; run run/free at last today/wookiee freedom at last/lando and han looking on
Game types
The original game comes with six solo-player campaigns with the expansion pack adding two more, all of which reflect events in galactic history. There is also a Standard Game feature, which pits human player(s) against a set number of AI opponents for control of a map. The standard goal is to defeat one's enemies by either forcing surrender or annihilation. Other variations include race to construct a Monument first, "King-Of-The-Hill" and regicide.

Technology and research
To acquire technology, the player must first construct buildings. Buildings are either economic, military or research orientated. Economic buildings will be drop-off points for resources as well as upgrades to worker gather speed. Military buildings can create new units, offer upgrades for those units or are defensive structures which help protect a base. Research buildings provide upgrades to units, buildings and defensive structures. The cost of the research will depend generally on the technology level and advantage that the research provides.
Technology plays a central role. Early in the game, players must balance economic and military priorities, allocating scarce resources. Too much emphasis on researching technology and moving through the Levels without creating manpower can leave an army vulnerable to attack. On the other hand, putting resources into a large population at the expense of progress can lead to defeat if the enemy has progressed and is able to field a small but more powerful attack force.

Monuments and holocrons
    Holocron  
Holocrons are special unique items that are scattered around the map, and can only be picked up by Jedi or Sith. Once placed within a Jedi Temple or a Sith Temple, a holocron steadily generates free nova crystals for the civilization that holds it (this reflects the historical realities of the power and influence that possessing knowledge has). Certain factions will gain extra crystals from holocrons, others will gain fewer. To capture a holocron from an enemy temple, the temple must suffer heavy damage to the holocron is ejected before its annihilation and then a Jedi/Sith unit can collect it. The standard skirmish victory condition allows for a "Holocron victory": if one player gathers all holocrons, a countdown begins, and if it expires, victory is awarded. (The Holocrons are similar in function to the Relics from Age of Empires II, for they are both stored in Temples, and generating resources: Nova crystals and gold, respectively.)

     An Imperial monument  
Monuments are massive structures that require large amounts of resources and time to build. If a player completes a Monument, and it stands intact for an uninterrupted period of time (400 game days), they win. Each civilization has their own Monument (typically a famous work of historical architecture).

Scenario editor
The game gives players the option of creating their own levels in the Scenario Editor. This allows players to create their own levels and even combine multiple levels into a campaign. The levels can be made using all terrain types featured in the game and can place every type of unit and building available in the game, including units listed as heroes which are characters that specifically appear in the campaigns, such as Chewbacca. Some other characters from the Star Wars universe can also be used in Scenarios that aren't anywhere else the game, such as Dash Rendar and the Outrider, as well as characters invented solely for the game, such as Excellency Lathe Parthenian and Tallamitta.

Units and factions
Each faction typically has a set number of advantages and disadvantages which ensures that the differences between each faction is not just cosmetic. Certain factions will be able to access various parts of the technology tree while others are denied certain upgrades. There are also a number of unique technologies and one faction specific unit trainable at the Fortress. These differences can be turned off at the beginning of a skirmish game so that everyone has access to the same technologies and units. In team games, there is a further bonus to that team.
Units separated with commas below means different versions of the same unit.

Galactic Empire
     ASP-7, the Empire's basic labor droid  
Faction Bonuses: Aircraft 5% cheaper, Upgrades to Heavy Mech units 10% cheaper Fortress builds 10% faster
Team Bonus: Mech units +10% speed

Troop center:
Stormtrooper recruit, Stormtrooper, Armored Stormtrooper, Repeating Stormtrooper
Dewback trooper, Heavy Dewback Trooper, Advanced Dewback Trooper
Thermal detonator Trooper
Missile Launcher Trooper, Armored Missile Trooper
Mech factory:
Speeder Bike
AT-PT, Heavy AT-PT (strike mech)
Light AT-ST, AT-ST (mech destroyer)
AT-AT, Heavy AT-AT (assault mech)
Shipyard:
Utility trawler
Light Scout, Scout, Advanced Scout Frigate (frigate)
Transport Ship
Cruiser, Heavy Cruiser
Destroyer, Heavy Destroyer
Missile Destroyer, Heavy Missile Destroyer
Fortress:
Dark trooper Phase 1, Dark Trooper Phase 2 - Unique Unit
Shock Cannon
Star Cruiser
Command center:
2-1C medical droid
ASP-7 labor droid
Viper probe droid
Heavy Weapons Factory:
Artillery, Heavy Artillery
AT-AA, Heavy AT-AA (anti-air)
Energy Pummel, Heavy Energy Pummel
Airbase:
Imperial Lander (air transport)
TIE/sa bomber, TIE Heavy Bomber, TIE Interdictor
TIE Fighter, TIE/IN interceptor, TIE/D Defender
Spaceport:
Imperial Cargo Trader
Sith Temple
Sith Apprentice, Sith Knight, Sith Master
Gungans
     A Gungan raaptur  
Faction Bonus: Can construct underwater prefab shelters, buildings are organic and can self regenerate, Workers have 10% ore mining bonus in Technology Level 3 & 4.
Team Bonus: Ships -15% cost, Shield generators -15% cost

Troop Center:
Gungan Trooper Recruit, Gungan Trooper, Heavy Gungan Trooper, Gungan Repeater Trooper
Kaadu Trooper, Heavy Kaadu Trooper, Advanced Kaadu Trooper
Gungan Booma Trooper
Gungan Missile Trooper, Heavy Gungan Missile Trooper
Mech Factory:
Swift
Kaadu Cavalry, Armored Kaadu Cavalry (strike mech)
Lerraa, Large Lerraa (mech destroyer)
Fambaa, Large Fambaa (assault mech)
Shipyard:
Utility trawler
Bongo Light Scout, Bongo Scout, Bongo Advanced Scout (frigate)
Transport Ship
Bongo Behemoth, Bongo Advanced Behemoth (cruiser)
Bongo Laser, Bongo Fast Laser (destroyer)
Bongo Missile, Bongo Heavy Missile
Fortress:
Fambaa Shield Generator, Heavy Fambaa Shield Generator - Unique Unit
Fambaa sonic cannon
Aquanna
Command Center:
Gungan Doctor
Glurrg
Heavy Weapons Factory:
Energy Catapult, Heavy Energy Catapult (artillery)
Raaptur, Large Raaptur (organic anti-air)
Cerrabore, Large Cerrabore (pummel creature)
Airbase:
Dunsenn FlopCarrier (air transport, flying puffer fish)
Gungan Bomber, Enhanced Gungan Bomber, Advanced Gungan Bomber (unnamed flying creature)
Gungan Fighter, Fast Gungan Fighter, Advanced Gungan Fighter
Spaceport:
Sando HoverFreighter
Jedi Temple
Padawan, Jedi Knight
Rebel Alliance
     Javelin  
Faction Bonus: Farmers +5 carry capacity, Fortress +1 range, Line of sight and search radius, the Rebels have two unique units
Team Bonus:Farm food maximum raised by +35

Troop Center:
Rebel Trooper Recruit, Blaster Trooper, Heavy Blaster Trooper, Armored Repeater Trooper
Tauntaun Trooper, Heavy Tauntaun Trooper, Advanced Tauntaun Trooper
Rebel mortar trooper
Missile Trooper, Armored Missile Trooper
Mech Factory:
Swoop Bike
Combat Speeder, Heavy Combat Speeder (strike mech)
Hover Tank, Heavy Hover Tank (mech destroyer)
Attack Tank, Heavy Attack Tank (assault mech)
Shipyard:
Utility Trawler
Light Scout, Scout, Advanced Scout (frigate)
Transport Ship
Prowler, Heavy Prowler (cruiser)
Hunter, Heavy Hunter (destroyer)
Javelin, Heavy Javelin (anti-air cruiser)
Fortress:
Airspeeder, Armored Airspeeder - Unique Unit
Blaster Cannon
Light Corvette
Command Center:
2-1B
Rebel R2-D5
Heavy Weapons Factory:
Artillery, Heavy Artillery
Mobile Proton Torpedo Launcher, Mobile Proton Torpedo Launcher-2a (anti-air)
Energy Pummel, Heavy Energy Pummel
Airbase:
Rebel Transport (air transport)
Light Y-Wing, Y-wing, Heavy Y-Wing
Z-95 Headhunter, X-Wing, Advanced X-Wing
A-Wing - Unique Unit
Spaceport:
Mon Calamari Trader
Jedi Temple
Jedi Padawan, Jedi Knight, Jedi Master
Royal Naboo
     Royal crusaders  
The Royal Naboo are not playable in the campaign mode, only in skirmish mode.
Faction Bonus: Nova collection +10%, Holocrons produce more nova, Fortress has increased attack versus mechs and heavy weapons

Troop Center:
Royal Trooper Recruit, Royal Trooper, Royal Heavy Trooper, Armored Repeater Trooper
Kaadu w/Royal Trooper, Heavy Kaadu w/Royal Trooper, Advanced Kaadu w/Royal Trooper (In Clone Campaigns, these are replaced with the units below)
Tuskcat Trooper, Heavy Tuskcat Trooper, Advanced Tuskcat Trooper, respectively
Thermal detonator trooper
Missile Trooper, Armored Missile Trooper
Mech Factory:
Udopal speeder
Gian speeder, Heavy Gian Speeder (strike mech)
Champion, Heavy Champion (mech destroyer)
Steadfast, Heavy Steadfast (assault mech)
Shipyard:
Utility Trawler
Light Scout, Scout, Advanced Scout (frigate)
Transport Ship
Cruiser, Advanced Cruiser
Destroyer, Heavy Destroyer
Missile Destroyer, Heavy Missile Destroyer
Fortress:
Royal crusader, Elite Royal Crusader - Unique Unit
Royal cannon
Royal air cruiser
Command Center:
Royal med droid
PKN-49 worker droid
Heavy Weapons Factory:
Energy Catapult, Heavy Energy Catapult (artillery)
Mobile Missile Launcher, Heavy Missile Launcher (anti-air)
Energy Pummel, Heavy Energy Pummel
Airbase:
Naboo Royal Lifter (air transport)
NB-1 Royal Bomber, NB-1S Royal Bomber, NB-1T Royal Bomber
N-1L Starfighter, N-1 starfighter, N-1T Starfighter
Spaceport:
Royal trade ship
Jedi Temple
Jedi Padawan, Jedi Knight, Jedi Master
Trade Federation
Faction Bonus: No prefab shelters needed, Fortress +3 Anti-Air range
Team Bonus: Heavy weapons +15% speed

Troop Center:
Battle Droid Beta Version, Battle Droid, Heavy Battle Droid, Repeater Battle Droid
Beetle Trooper, Heavy Beetle Trooper, Advanced Beetle Trooper
Thermal Detonator Battle Droid
Missile Battle Droid, Baron Battle Droid (heavy anti-air)
Mech Factory:
Speeder platform
STAP, Heavy STAP (strike mech)
AAT, Heavy AAT (mech destroyer)
MTT, Heavy Multi-Troop Transport (assault mech)
Shipyard:
Utility Trawler
S-LFRG, S-FRG, S-HFRG (frigate)
S-TRN (transport ship)
S-CRS, S-HCRS (cruiser)
S-DST, S-HDST (destroyer)
S-AAD, S-HAAD (anti-air destroyer)
Fortress:
Destroyer Droid, Heavy Destroyer Droid - Unique Unit
Bio cannon
LAATAK
Command Center:
MED-47 medical droid
OX9
Heavy Weapons Factory:
HAG-M, HHAG-M (artillery)
AML, HAML (anti-air)
Energy Pummel, Heavy Energy Pummel
Airbase:
Neimoidian Transport (air transport)
Droid Starbomber, Shielded Droid Starbomber, Advanced Droid Starbomber (E-STAPs)
Droid Starfighter, Heavy Droid Starfighter, Advanced Droid Starfighter (Droid starfighters)
Spaceport:
Neimoidian trader
Sith Temple
Sith Apprentice, Sith Knight
Wookiees
Faction Bonus: Carbon collection is 5% faster in Tech Level 3 & 4, Fortress +5 line of sight and +10% strength
Team Bonus:Troopers +2 line of sight and +2 search radius

Troop Center:
Wookiee Trooper Recruit, Bowcaster trooper, Heavy bowcaster Trooper, Repeating Bowcaster Trooper
Dragon trooper, Heavy Dragon Trooper, Advanced Dragon Trooper
Thermal Detonator Trooper
Missile Trooper, Heavy Missile Trooper
Mech Factory:
HummBike
Sentinel, Heavy Sentinel (strike mech)
Kas tank, Heavy Kas Tank (mech destroyer)
Battle Scythe, Heavy Battle Scythe (assault mech)
Shipyard:
Utility Trawler
Light Scout, Scout, Advanced Scout (frigate)
Transport Ship
Cruiser, Heavy Cruiser
Destroyer, Heavy Destroyer
Liberator, Heavy Liberator (anti-air destroyer)
Fortress:
Berserker, Advanced Berserker - Unique Unit
Decimator cannon
Kas air cruiser
Command Center:
Wookiee Medic
Wookiee Villager
Heavy Weapons Factory:
Catapult, Heavy Catapult
Proton Torpedo Launcher
Heavy Proton Torpedo Launcher (anti-air)
Energy Pummel, Heavy Energy Pummel
Airbase:
Kettrifee Air Mover (air transport)
Blade, Heavy Blade, Advanced Blade
Agr, Fast Agr, Advanced Agr
Spaceport:
Corellian HoverFreighter
Jedi Temple
Jedi Padawan, Jedi Knight
Species
Dewback
Eopie
Falumpaset
Fambaa
Gundark
Kaadu
Mynock
Nerf
Orray
Rancor
Tusk cat
Buildings and fabrications
     Unused concept art for a Flak Gun  
Command center
Prefab shelter
Food processing center
Carbon processing center
Ore processing center
Nova processing center
Farm
Troop center
Shipyard
Spaceport
Animal nursery
Walls
Light Wall
Medium Wall
Heavy Wall
Shield Wall
Turrets
Light Turret
Medium Turret
Anti-Air Turret
Advanced Anti-Air Turret
War Center
Mech factory
Jedi Temple
Sith Temple
Fortress
Research Center
Airbase
Heavy Weapons Factory
Gate
Power core
AquaHarvester
Sentry Post
Monument
Gungan Temple
Neimoidian Throne
Imperial Palace (Monument)
Government Tree
Planets
Battles take place in the following background settings, also available for custom missions.

Alaris Prime
Avatar Orbital Platform
Bespin
Endor
Hanoon
Hoth
Kashyyyk
Kessel
Krant
Naboo
Reytha
Realspace, asteroids and asteroid belts.
Silken Asteroids
Tatooine
Yavin 4
Zaloriis
Reception
Critics believed that the game showed the limitations of the engine, which was probably not fit for sci-fi games: Laser shots often hit their target even when the craft wasn't pointing at them, and the proportions (like in the cases of AT-ATs or Rancors) were unrealistic.

Continuity
The game shows some historical and factual inconsistencies, such as telling players that the AT-AT was developed during the Galactic Civil War when in fact it was developed during the Clone Wars. Among the assault units in the game, the basic Trade Federation trooper is a B1-series battle droid, and the basic Confederacy trooper is a B2-series super battle droid. While the B2 is manifestly an upgraded version of the B1, the game makes them equal. Also, the NR-N99 Persuader-class droid enforcer, identified vaguely in the game as the "Corporate Alliance Tank Mech," is portrayed as much larger and more powerful than it actually was according to canon.
In some cases, levels are very different from the missions in the movies. For example, if the player is playing as the Empire on the Endor Mission, the Rebels have four bases; this disagrees with the movie and most canon sources, which state that the Rebel force deployed on Endor was limited. In the middle of the mission, the Millennium Falcon and R2-D2, C-3PO, Luke and Leia escape. This is inconsistent, too, as Luke was on the Death Star II at the time of the battle, and the Millennium Falcon and the multiple X-wings and Y-wings seen on the mission were fighting the Imperial Fleet.

Credits

By type 


Cast

Uncredited cast

Crew

Uncredited crew

Special thanks


Cast



David Davies ... Obi-Wan Kenobi
Tom Kane ... Yoda, Boba Fett, C-3PO, Imperial Missile Destroyer Captain, Naboo destroyer captain, Vilmarh Grahrk
Scott Lawrence ... Darth Vader
Charles Martinet ... 2-1B, AT-AT driver / OOM-9
Michael Gough ... Airspeeder pilot / Battle Droid / Rebel hovercraft captain / Sith Knight / Fast Bike driver / Zalor Minister
Jake Lloyd ... Anakin Skywalker (Episode 1)
Nick Jameson ... AT-AA driver / Darth Sidious / Supreme Chancellor / Emperor Palpatine / Gen. Jor Drakas / Nikto thug
Jamie Alcroft ... AT-PT driver / Javelin submarine captain / Sio Bibble
Jarion Monroe ... AT-ST driver / E-Stap pilot / Gen. Jan Dodonna
Douglas Rye ... Attack Tank driver / X-Wing pilot
Tasia Valenza ... Aurra Sing / Empire hovercraft captain / Rebel blaster cannon
Carol Bach y Rita ... A-Wing pilot / Missile launcher driver
James Horan ... Boss Gallo / Combat speeder driver / Missile stormtrooper / Reytha governor
Neil Klapen ... Boss Ganne / Goonga trooper / Grenade battle droid / Gungan trooper / Missile battle droid
Kevin Michael Richardson ... Boss Nass / Rebel trooper
Amanda Moody ... Boushh / Gungan hovercraft captain / Naboo hovercraft captain
David Jeremiah ... Capt. Marsune / Rebel missile trooper / Trade Federation hovercraft captain
Jeff Coopwood ... Capt. Panaka / Rebel trawler captain
Rob Paulsen ... Capt. Tarpals / Grenade trooper / Gungan villager #1 / Naboo missile destroyer captain / Royal trooper
Rachel Reenstra ... Champion Driver / Hover Tank Driver / Swoop Bike Driver
Jess Harnell ... Darth Maul / Gungan bolo trooper / Hannoon soldier / Stap driver
Roger Jackson ... Echuu Shen-Jon / Jedi Padawan / Mahwi Lihnn
Murphy Dunn ... EEK-176 / Naboo cruiser captain
Phil Proctor ... Empire cruiser captain / Jedi Master / Viceroy Nute Gunray
Carolyn Seymour ... Empire destroyer captain / Gungan medic / Starbomber pilot
Ethan Phillips ... Empire medical droid / Krantian governor / Royal grenade trooper
Victor Raider-Wexler ... Empire scout captain / Prowler submarine captain
Harvey Jason ... Empire transport ship captain / Royal lifter pilot
Heidi Shannon ... Flash Speeder driver / Heavy lifter pilot / Mara Jade
Guy Siner ... Gen. Maximilian Veers / Trade Federation med droid
Robert Foster ... Gian Speeder driver / Speeder bike driver / Wedge Antilles
Lewis Macleod ... Gungan missile trooper / Imperial carrier pilot / Obi-Wan Kenobi
Grey DeLisle ... Gungan villager #2 / Queen Amidala / Rebel scout captain / Royal missile trooper
David Esch ... Han Solo
Kath Soucie ... Hannoon leader
Charity James ... Hunter submarine captain / Naboo trawler captain / Neimoidian lifter pilot
Ahmed Best ... Jar Jar Binks
Terence McGovern ... Jedi Knight / Stormtrooper
Lizzie Murray ... Krantian soldier / Naboo medical droid / Naboo transport ship captain
Obba Babatundé ... Lando Calrissian
Bob Bergen ... Luke Skywalker / Reytha soldier
Joe Paulino ... Moff Yittreas / Sith apprentice / Starfighter pilot
Kimberly Brooks ... Naboo scout captain / Y-Wing pilot
Robert Pike Daniel ... OOM-14 / Royal Knight / Tie Fighter pilot
Frank Welker ... Pekt / Sith Master / Utric Sandov
Lisa Fuson ... Princess Leia / Rebel grenade trooper
James Warwick ... Qui-Gon Jinn / Zalor militiaman
Susan Boyo ... Rebel transport ship captain / Royal cannon
Hamilton Camp ... Rune Haaku / Tie Bomber pilot
Michael Ralph ... Steadfast driver / Torpedo launcher driver

Crew



Garry M. Gaber: Director
Christopher Williams: Art Lead
Scot Brew, Bernard Eral, Bryan Erck, James Michael Gutierrez, Shinichiro Hara, Jeffrey Kember, Livia Knight, Michael Licht, Peter Tieryas, Sean Marr, Paul Murphy, Rob Nitsch, Paul Pierce, Allison Purdy, Josef Richardson, Kristen Russell, Josan Russo, Jonathan Sgro, Jennifer Sheldon, Daryl Smolen, Marcia Thomas, Carl Wattenberg, Martin Yee, and Jerril Yoo: Art
Greg Knight: Concept Art Lead
Ian Berry, Gregory A. Knight, Ti-Ning Kwa, Ashot Melkumov: Concept Art
Marc Overney, Animation Lead
Mike Dacko, Cathy Feraday Miller, Yu Hon Ng, Joe White, and Lisa Wong: Animation
Reed Knight: Level Design Lead
Brandy "Lily" Childs, Ryan Kaufman, Stephen J. McManus, Kevin Schmitt, Donald Sielke: Level Design
Matthew McManus and John Stafford: Level Design Balancing
Vernon H. Harmon II, Jenny Huang, George Ruof: Engineers
Charles W. Smith, Engingeers, Tools
Isa Anne Stamos: Producer
Nate Schaumberg: Assistant producer/Finnish tv star/Big in Japan
Chane Hollander: QA Testersmdash;Lead
Matthew Keast, David Silverstein: QA Testersmdash;Assistant Lead
James Barton, Phillip Berry, Ryan Bond, Eric Brummel, Jeremy Campbell, Jim Diaz, Nick Eberle, David Felton, Bryan Finoki, Brad Grantham, Jeffrey Gullett, Henry Hall, Alice Henderson, Toby Mast, Matthew McManus, Hugh Moore, Maximillian Alexander Roghi, Roger Romero, Matthew Rubenstein, Chris Susen, and Sean Thomson: QA Testers
Lynn Taylor: Compatibility Supervisor
John Carsey, John von Eichhorn, G. W. Childs, Eric Knudson, and Dan Martinez: Compatibility Technicians
Darryl Cobb: Network Compatibility Lead
James Davison: Network Compatibility Senior Technician
Jeff Sanders: International Testing Lead
Darren Hedges: Manager of International Production
Karen Ffinch: International Producer
Paul Purdy: Manager of Quality Services
Chip Hinnenberg: Quality Assurance Supervisor
Jay Geraci: Product Support Supervisor
Larry The O: Sound Design Lead
Andrew Cheney: Sound Design
Michael Frayne: Additional Sound Design
David Levison: Sound Design Supervisor
Malena Annable: Sound Department Coordinator
J. White: Music Editor
Darragh O'Farrell: Voice Director/Producer
Peggy Bartlett: Voice Department Coordinator
Cindy Wong: Voice Editing Lead
William A. Beckman, Hans Larson, Voice Editing
Burke Pemberton, Voice Editing Intern
John Williams: Original Star Wars music
Ben Burtt: Original Star Wars Sound Effects
Stacy Cheregotis, Chris Gollaher, and Kristi Kaufman: Lucas Licensing
W. Haden Blackman: Continuity Expert
Joel Dreskin: Product Marketing
Alexis Mervin, Heather Twist, and Tom Sarris: Public Relations
Kathy Apostoli: International Marketing / PR
Kevin G. Graas, and Alice Henderson: Manual Writers
Mollie Boero: Manual Editor
Logan Parr: Poster Editor
Cassia Dominguez and Patty Hill: Manual and Poster Design
Darryl Cobb, John von Eichhorn, Chip Hinnenberg, and Lynn Taylor: Technical Writers
Kellie Walker and Wendy Kaplan: CD Burning Goddesses
Greg Canessa, Matthew Esget: Special Thanks
George Lucas: Very Special Thanks



