









Perhaps the archives are incomplete.
This article contains an excess of redlinks.
Attention is requested to create new articles from these links. Click "[show]" in the "Credits" and "Appearances" sections if redlinks are not immediately visible. Please remove this message when finished.






For other uses, see Star Wars: Complete Vehicles.







Star Wars: Complete Vehicles

Attribution information

Author(s)
Kerrie DoughertyCurtis SaxtonDavid West ReynoldsRyder Windham


Illustrator(s)
Hans JenssenRichard ChasemoreJohn MullaneyJon Hall



Publication information

Publisher
DK Publishing


Publication date
July 29, 2013


Type
Hardcover


Pages
208


ISBN
9781465408747


Series
Incredible Cross-Sections


[Source]

Star Wars: Complete Vehicles is a hardcover reference book released on July 29, 2013. It is a DK Publishing product in the Incredible Cross-Sections series and shows the inner workings of nearly every vehicle in the original and prequel trilogies. An expansion of the earlier Star Wars: Complete Cross-Sections, which was itself a compilation of the four movie Cross-Sections books, Complete Vehicles includes four new cross-sections for the 74-Z speeder bike, X-34 landspeeder, the EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate Redemption, and the MC80 Star Cruiser Home One. Content from the original books was also expanded; several smaller vehicles that did not receive their own pages in earlier editions were given pages, and various pages were rearranged and reorganized to accommodate the shorter height of the book as compared to earlier editions.

Publisher's summary
For any fan who wants to explore the inner workings of the spaceships and vehicles of all six Star Wars™
 movies comes this fascinating expanded edition of a fan favorite, now
with new cross-section artworks and a wealth of new photos.
Star Wars: Complete Vehicles is packed with visual explorations of more than fifty essential Star Wars spacecraft and landcraft, including the TIE bomber, Imperial shuttle, A-wing, B-wing, and more. Full-color cross-section artwork presents in-depth examinations of each craft's weapon systems, engines, hyperdrives, cockpits, and construction secrets, providing a never-before-seen glimpse at the vehicles that drive the Star Wars universe. Star Wars: Complete Vehicles now features new and never-before-seen cross-sections!

Continuity
On pages 117 and 206, "Soulless" is misspelled as "Souless." Also on page 117, the opening paragraph contains the usage error "an Utapaun P-38 fighter".
On page 121, Alaris Prime is incorrectly described as a moon of Kashyyyk when it really orbited Alaris.
In the cross-section of the Death Star, the descriptions "Carrier beam crystal", "Main power generator", "Firing field amplifier", and "Static discharge tower" are mixed up in each other's positions.
Media
Editions
ISBN 9781465408747; July 29, 2013; DK Publishing; US hardcover
ISBN 9781465408747; 2015; DK Publishing; US hardcover, Disney edition
Contents
Entries in bold denote new additions or updates to this version. Note that for this edition, some minor re-ordering was given to the Episodes III-VI ships to accommodate gate-folds.

Foreword
The Old Republic
The Galactic Empire
Technology
Episode I (originally published in Star Wars: Episode I Incredible Cross-Sections)
Republic Cruiser
Dangerous Diplomacy
Droid Invasion Forces
Landing Ship
MTT (Large Transport)
Gungan Sub
Exploring the Deep
Gungan Technology
Naboo Queen's Royal Starship
Podracers
The Boonta Eve Classic
Podracing Rivals
Sith Infiltrator
Droid Starfighter
Droid Control Ship
Naboo N-1 Starfighter
Defenders of Naboo
STAP
AAT (Battle Tank)
Naboo Speeders
Coruscant Taxi
Episode II (originally published in Star Wars: Attack of the Clones Incredible Cross-Sections)
Naboo Cruiser
Zam's Airspeeder
Anakin's Airspeeder
Coruscant Speeder Chase
Jedi Starfighter
Jedi Starships
Weapon of a Bounty Hunter
Jango Fett's Slave I
Owen Lars's Swoop Bike
Padmé's Starship
Trade Federation Core Ship
Geonosian Fighter
Geonosian Technology
Republic Assault Forces
Republic Assault Ship
Republic Gunship
AT-TE
LAAT/C Gunship
Solar Sailers
Dooku's Solar Sailer
Episode III (originally published in Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections)
Star Destroyer—Venator Class
V-wing
ARC-170 Fighter
Jedi Interceptor
Hyperdrive Boosters
Confederacy Buzz Droids
Tri-Fighter
Droid Gunship
Juggernaut
AT-RT
Commerce Guild Support Destroyer
Banking Clan Frigate
Invisible Hand
Utapaun P-38 Fighter
Techno Union Ships
Grievous's Starfighter (pg.117)
Grievous's Wheel Bike
Wookiee Catamaran
Swamp Speeder
Fit for an Emperor (p. 123
Palpatine's Shuttle
Yoda's Escape Pods
Episodes IV—VI (originally published in Star Wars: Incredible Cross-Sections)
Blockade Runner
Escape Pod
Imperial Navy
Star Destroyer
Sandcrawler
Luke's Landspeeder
Millennium Falcon
"What a Piece of Junk!"
TIE Fighter
Death Star
T-65 X-wing
The Battle of Yavin
Y-wing: Rebel Workhorse
BTL-A4 Y-wing
TIE Advanced x1
AT-AT
AT-AT Cockpit
AT-ST
Snowspeeder
TIE Bomber
TIE Interceptor
Legacy of a Bounty Hunter
Slave I
Medical Frigate
Home One
Imperial Shuttle
Jabba's Sail Barge
Sailing the Dune Sea
Fast and Dangerous
Scout Speeder Bike
A-wing Fighter
B-wing Fighter
Data Files
Glossary
Richard Chasemore (swapped places with Jenssen)
Hans Jenssen (swapped places with Chasemore)
Index
Acknowledgements