
Star Wars Outlaws

Production information

Developer(s)
Massive Entertainment


Publisher(s)
Lucasfilm GamesUbisoft


Release date
August 30, 2024


Game engine
Snowdrop


Rating(s)
16+


Platform(s)
PCPlayStation 5Xbox Series X



Attribution information

Director(s)
Mathias Karlson


Writer(s)
Nikki Foy (lead)


Composer(s)
Wilbert Roget II (lead)



Chronological information

Timeline
Between 3 ABY and 4 ABY


[Source]



"We know that fans of Star Wars value the feeling of immersion — of being transported into the Star Wars galaxy and moving through richly-detailed environments. It's fun to imagine what the team at Massive can do within Star Wars by bringing their innovative spirit and their commitment to quality."
―Douglas Reilly, VP of Lucasfilm Games
Star Wars Outlaws is an upcoming open world video game developed by Massive Entertainment and published by Ubisoft in collaboration with Lucasfilm Games. The game will be story-driven, will feature an open world, and will utilize Massive Entertainment's proprietary Snowdrop game engine.

Gameplay
Outlaws has a faction reputation system, which shapes the world in small ways based on dialogue choices and other decisions like choosing a subtle or aggressive approach in specific missions. Kay Vess's actions will dictate how individuals/factions react to her. However, there aren't branching narrative threads.
The game can broadly be divided into three types of settings: cities, large open-world areas, and space. Vess can travel the galaxy at will, and take part in various side quests. Vess will have a different standing with each criminal leader based on the player's actions.

Development
Narratively, the starting point for Outlaws was to have the game have the POV of a scoundrel. Afterwards, the game was pitched to Lucasfilm Games, and it was settled that the game would take place between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi. The story started to crystalize around the idea of having a character and story that wasn't part of the Galactic Civil War.

Credits

By type 


Cast

Uncredited cast

Crew

Uncredited crew

Special thanks


Cast



Dee Bradley Baker as Nix, Jabba Desilijic Tiure
Humberly González as Kay Vess
Jay Rincon as ND-5

Crew



Mathias Karlson – game director
Navid Khavari – narrative director
John Björling – associate narrative director
Nikki Foy – lead writer
Wilbert Roget II – lead composer
Royal Scottish National Orchestra
Siegfried Klar – sound designer



