Taun We


Biographical information

Homeworld
Kamino


Died
19 BBY, Bora Vio



Descriptive information

Species
Kaminoan


Gender
Female


Pronouns
She/her


Height
2.13 meters


Eye color
Black with white pupils


Skin color
White



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Ruling CouncilGalactic RepublicGalactic Empire


[Source]



"Master Jedi. The Prime Minister is expecting you.""I'm expected?""Of course. He is anxious to meet you. After all these years, we were beginning to think you weren't coming."
―Taun We and Obi-Wan Kenobi
Taun We was a Kaminoan female administrative aide who served Prime Minister Lama Su during the last years of the Galactic Republic. Prior to the Clone Wars, the planetary government of Kamino was commissioned by Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas to create an army of clone troopers for the Republic. Taun We worked alongside the clone army's genetic donor, a human bounty hunter called Jango Fett, overseeing the clone troopers' development in Tipoca City. Although Fett lacked pride in the army that was modeled on his template, Taun We was satisfied with the clones' progress, noting that every unit met with her people's expectations. Ultimately, she believed that the clones would grow into the finest soldiers ever produced on Kamino.
During the last days of the Separatist Crisis, Taun We greeted Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi upon his arrival in Tipoca City. Unaware of Kenobi's mission to find the mercenary who tried to assassinate Senator Padmé Amidala, Taun We presumed that he was sent by the Jedi Order's High Council to inspect the clone units. Kenobi used Taun We's naïveté to infiltrate the cloning facility which, in turn, led to his discovery of Jango and Boba Fett. After the Clone Wars, Taun We continued to serve as Lama Su's aide during the early days of the Galactic Empire until her death at the hands of the bounty hunter Fennec Shand.

Biography
Creation of the clone army

"I do believe that this army will be our finest creation yet. Not a single clone unit has fallen below combat parameters. You must be very proud.""What do I have to be proud of? Livestock bred as cannon fodder? Like you said, they're your creations."
―Taun We and Jango Fett
     While Jango Fett felt no pride for the clone troopers, Taun We found them to be her people's finest creation.  
Taun We was the administrative aide of Prime Minister Lama Su, leader of the government of Kamino, during the last years of the Galactic Republic. In the decade between the Naboo Crisis and the outbreak of the Clone Wars, the Kaminoans utilized their advanced cloning technology to engineer an army of clone troopers at the behest of the Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, who foresaw that the Republic would need a proper military for its defense. As a member of the Prime Minister's administration, Taun We was involved in the army's development.
Taun We kept track of the clone army's progression, noting that not a single clone unit had fallen below combat parameters. She shared this information with Jango Fett, a human bounty hunter who served as the original source of the clone troopers, while observing clone cadets engaged in training routines. She declared the army to be the Kaminoans' finest creation to date, although Fett felt he had little personal pride in the achievements of Taun We's creations.

Genesis of the Clone Wars

"Tell your Council that the first battalions are ready. And remind them, if they need more troops, it will take more time to grow them."
―Taun We, to Obi-Wan Kenobi
     Taun We introduced Obi-Wan Kenobi to Jango Fett, the template of all clone troopers.  
In 22 BBY, the Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi traveled to Kamino while investigating an assassination plot against Senator Padmé Amidala. Taun We greeted Kenobi in Tipoca City under the false impression that he came to inspect the cloning operation as an emissary of the Jedi Order. After introducing him to Lama Su, she arranged a meeting between Kenobi and Fett at the Jedi's request.
Before Kenobi's departure from the cloning facility, Taun We confirmed that the first battalions were ready for service, although more units required additional time to complete their growth stage. Shortly thereafter, the Grand Army of the Republic was formed—its ranks consisting of the Kaminoan clone troopers—in response to the military threat of the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Following the start of the war, Taun We worked closely with Shaak Ti, a member of the Jedi High Council who was tasked with overseeing the clones' development once the Clone Wars began.

Formation of the Galactic Empire

"Taun We, you will go to our abandoned facility on Bora Vio. Bring the bounty hunter his payment and recover our property.""Yes, Prime Minister."
―Lama Su and Taun We
     Lama Su entrusted the task of retrieving Omega to Taun We instead of Nala Se.  
By 19 BBY,
Taun We was still present on Kamino, working alongside Lama Su after the proclamation of the New Order by Galactic Emperor Sheev Palpatine. She stood beside Lama Su while he met with Admiral Wilhuff Tarkin to discuss the Galactic Empire's need or lack thereof for additional clone troopers, working on a datapad as Lama Su worked to convince Tarkin of the merits of clones versus conscripted soldiers. Taun We was later sent to Bora Vio by Lama Su to retrieve the clone child Omega and pay the bounty hunter responsible for returning her, the Duros Cad Bane. Omega was to be returned to Kamino and discreetly terminated once her genetic material had been obtained. However, it was there, at an old cloning facility, that she was killed by the mercenary Fennec Shand, who had been sent by another Kaminoan, Nala Se, in an effort to protect Omega and keep her safe.

Legacy

"Why did you kill Taun We?"
―Omega, to Fennec Shand
     Taun We was killed by Fennec Shand.  
Upon hearing the shot that killed We, Omega initially assumed that Clone Force 99 had arrived to rescue her. However, upon seeing We's dead body in the hallway, Omega quickly recognized the Kaminoan and was surprised to see her, begging Bane to let her help the prone Kaminoan. The bounty hunter, however, had realized We was dead, and Shand soon revealed herself, starting a duel between the two hunters for Omega. After Bane was briefly knocked out, Omega demanded Shand to answer why she had killed We, although the hunter remained unsympathetic, noting that the Kaminoan's death helped keep her safe from Su. Ultimately, Omega would manage to escape and send a message to Clone Force 99, allowing them to rescue her on Bora Vio.

Personality and traits

"I should very much like to meet this Jango Fett.""I would be very happy to arrange it for you."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Taun We
     Taun We was gentle, beautiful, and proud of her people's accomplishments.  
Taun We was a Kaminoan female who stood at 2.13 meters. Physically she was notable for her beauty and sylph-like figure. Like other members of her race, Taun We had large black eyes with white pupils. She was proud of the clone troopers developed for the Grand Army of the Republic, believing the army to be the finest creation of her people. She possessed a gentle nature, but was also naïve and therefore failed to realize that Obi-Wan Kenobi had been unaware of the clone army's existence prior to his arrival on Kamino.
Yet, despite Taun We's gentle nature, she is very amoral and like her species, she saw clone creations as possessions rather than as people. We was also loyal to Prime Minister Lama Su. When ordered by Su to recover the unaltered clone girl Omega, We did not object and was willing to go along with the Prime Minister's plans to have Omega killed once her DNA was extracted. However, We's loyalty to Lama Su and her naivety proved to be her downfall as she was unable to notice the scientist Nala Se's care for Omega and determination to protect her, leading We to be killed by bounty hunter Fennec Shand.

Behind the scenes
Taun We was voiced by Rena Owen in the 2002 film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, the second installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy. In the film, she was portrayed as an entirely computer-generated character. Owen performed Taun We's voice on set, wearing a specially modified hardhat with a maquette of the alien's head on top, which provided her co-stars with the proper line-of-sight for talking with the two-meter tall alien.
Rena Owen described Taun We as a creature of love and light, a graceful form that easily glides through life.
