Terr Taneel


Biographical information

Homeworld
Neelanon



Descriptive information

Species
Human


Pronouns
She/her


Hair color
Red


Eye color
Brown


Skin color
Fair



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic RepublicDelegation of 2,000


[Source]



"Are we going too far? The war is popular in my sector. We would be seen by many as obstructing an inevitable victory."
―Terr Taneel to members of the Delegation of 2,000
Terr Taneel was a human senator for the Senex sector in the Galactic Senate of the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars. She was a member of the Delegation of 2,000, a group who worried that Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine would not relinquish his emergency powers at the end of the war.
Along with other members of the group, she attended talks at Cantham House, the private estate of Senator Bail Organa, where the wording of the planned Petition of 2,000 was discussed. Taneel worried that they might be going to far when it was suggested they demand that Palpatine open peace talks to end the conflict.
When Palpatine was kidnapped and the rescued during the Battle of Coruscant in 19 BBY, Taneel was part of a crowd of senators that greeted him upon his return to Coruscant. She then attenended the Galaxies Opera House shortly before the petition was presented in the senate and the Clone Wars came to an end with Palpatine proclaiming himself Galactic Emperor.

Biography
Hesitant delegate
     Taneel attended talks at Cantham House.  
A human from the planet Neelanon Terr Taneel was a senator in the Galactic Republic during the conflict against the Confederacy of Independent Systems, known as the Clone Wars. She represented the Senex sector in the Galactic Senate and sat on a committee close to Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine. As the war began to wind down, Taneel attended talks held at Cantham House, the private estate of Senator Bail Organa on the Republic capital Coruscant. Organa and Senator Padmé Amidala were seeking other senators who were worried that Palpatine would not relinquish his emergency powers at the end of the conflict. The group planned became known as the Delegation of 2,000 and planned to provide their demands to Palpatine in the form of the Petition of 2,000.
Taneel was part of a group consisting of Loyalist Committee members and other select senators including Mon Mothma, Fang Zar, and Giddean Danu, that Organa invited to discuss the exact wording of the petition at Cantham House. When Mothma listed their demands as the relinquishment of the emergency powers, the abolishment of the Sector Governance Decree, and the beginning of peace talks with the Separatists, Taneel questioned if the peace talks were too far given how popular the war was in her sector, fearing some might view them as obstructing a certain victory. Amidala then reminded Taneel of the death toll of the conflict and pointed out that the longer it lasted the more time Palpatine would have to find loopholes through which he could amend the constitution.

War's end
     Taneel met with a human at the Galaxies Opera House.  
A month after this talk in 19 BBY, Palpatine was kidnapped by the Separatists and then rescued by the Jedi Order during the Battle of Coruscant. Taneel breathed a sigh of relief and was amongst the crowd who greeted the Chancellor on one of the Senate Office Building's landing pads when he was returned from Separatist capture by Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker. As Palpatine disembarked from a Util-313 speeder bus, the crowd moved forward to greet him before following him back into the building.
Taneel later attended the Galaxies Opera House while Palpatine was viewing a performance of the Mon Calamari ballet Squid Lake there. She was stood talking to another human in one of the opera house's corridors when Skywalker rushed past her on his way to meet with Palpatine. Shortly after this, the Petition of 2,000 was presented at a full session of the Senate, but when the war did end soon after, Palpatine declared himself Galactic Emperor of a new Galactic Empire rather then giving up his powers. Within a day, sixty-three signatories of the petition were arrested by the Empire.

Personality and traits
Taneel was suspicious of Palpatine during the Clone Wars and concerns about his power-grabbing caused her to join forces with Organa and his allies, although she was hesitant about some of their planned demands. The senator had above average intelligence and diplomatic skills, but was bellow average in strength, speed, and combat skills. She was not Force-sensitive.

Behind the scenes
     Amanda Lucas as Terr Taneel  
Taneel was portrayed by director George Lucas' eldest daughter, Amanda Lucas, in the 2005 film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, the third and final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy. In April 2003, George Lucas discussed with the costume designer Trisha Biggar the need for four female Senatorial outfits, including one for Amanda and another for her sister Katie. Ultimately, Katie was given the part of Chi Eekway Papanoida and Amanda the part of Terr Taneel.
