    
This article is about the member of the Alliance to Restore the Republic.You may be looking for Darth Tigran, a Sith Lord.







Tigran Jamiro


Descriptive information

Species
Human


Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him


Hair color
Brown


Eye color
Blue


Skin color
Fair



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Alliance to Restore the RepublicAlliance Military


[Source]



"Your tauntaun'll freeze before you reach the first marker!""Then I'll see you in hell!"
―Tigran Jamiro and Han Solo —  Listen (file info)
Lieutenant Tigran Jamiro was a human male who served as a senior logistics officer and deck officer in the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Galactic Civil War. In 3 ABY, he was stationed in Echo Base on the planet Hoth when the Jedi Luke Skywalker failed to return to the base after going to investigate what the latter believed to be a meteor.
He informed Skywalker's companion, Han Solo, that the Jedi had not returned, then unsuccessfully attempted to dissuade Solo from leaving the base on a tauntaun to search for his missing friend. After the Galactic Empire arrived in the Hoth system, Jamiro informed a group of scientists and mechanics about their arrival and gave a tearful farewell to the group. He then participated in the Battle of Hoth, in which the Imperials attacked Echo Base and forced the Alliance to evacuate.

Biography
Commander in the cold

"Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't come in the south entrance. He might have forgotten to check in.""Not likely. Are the speeders ready?""Uh, not yet. We're having some trouble adapting them to the cold."
―Tigran Jamiro and Han Solo —  Listen (file info)
     Tigran Jamiro served in Echo Base.  
Tigran Jamiro was a human male who served as a senior logistics officer with the rank of lieutenant in the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Galactic Civil War against the Galactic Empire. In 3 ABY, he was among the Alliance Military forces stationed in Echo Base, the Alliance's secret headquarters on the planet Hoth. The naturalist Kell Tolkani was amongst the base staff that served under Tigran's command. At one point, Jamiro spoke with Princess Leia Organa in one of the hangars of the base concerning the fact that the planet's dropping temperatures had caused the engines of all the Alliance's speeders to ice over. She gave the order to Jamiro that all snowspeeders would remain grounded until the issue was fixed.
When the Jedi Luke Skywalker failed to return to the base after going to investigate what he believed to be a meteor, Jamiro was working as deck officer. The officer and his assistant then rushed into the tauntaun chamber near the base's north entrance, where Jamiro approached Skywalker's companion, Han Solo. The officer reported that Skywalker had not returned through the base's south entrance, but speculated that he may simply have forgotten to check in. Solo dismissed this idea and asked Jamiro about the readiness of the base's speeders, but when the officer reported that the vehicles had not yet been adapted to the cold, Solo prepared to ride out on a tauntaun before anyone could protest. An assistant officer then stated he would cover sector twelve and set communication control to screen alpha.

Battle of Hoth

"We'll have to go out on tauntauns.""Sir, the temperature's dropping too rapidly.""That's right, and my friend's out in it."
―Han Solo and an aghast Tigran Jamiro —  Listen (file info)
     Jamiro tried to stop Solo leaving Echo Base on a tauntaun.  
Upon seeing Solo prepare to ride out, Tolkani warned Tigran that Solo would need to monitor his tauntaun's vitals carefully if the pair were to survive, as temperatures were rapidly dropping while night fell, meaning the creature would freeze. Hoping to maintain some control of the situation, Jamiro called after Solo and loudly repeated an abbreviated version of Tolkani's warning, stating that his tauntaun would never survive outside the base. Solo disregarded the warning and rode out alone. Neither Solo nor Skywalker returned to the base that night, but both were rescued the following morning.
Shortly after their return, the Empire arrived in the Hoth system and began attacking Echo Base. Jamiro informed a group of the base's scientists and mechanics, including Tolkani, of the Empire's arrival, letting them know that their evacuation slots had been assigned. He reassured them that they would likely survive the evacuation but advised them to write any final messages they wanted to send before leaving, which would then be encrypted and sent throughout the entire fleet to ensure their delivery if anyone managed to escape Hoth. Before finishing, he informed the group that it had been a pleasure to serve with them and hoped that the Force was with each of them no matter where they ended up. Tolkani chose to remain on Hoth to continue studying the native wildlife and mentioned Jamiro in a message explaining the decision that was intended for the naturalist's parents. Jamiro was then among the personnel that took part in the battle, and although the Alliance was defeated by Imperial forces, the rebels managed to successfully evacuate much of the base.

Personality and traits

"It has been a pleasure to serve with each of you. And wherever we go on this day, may the Force be with us."
―Jamiro says goodbye to the mechanics and scientists
Jamiro was aghast at Solo's plan to ride out on a tauntaun and considered it pure madness. When informing the scientists and mechanics that the Empire had arrived, Jamiro's voice was resigned and not as strong as Kolkani believed he probably would have liked. When saying farewell to the group, Jamiro's eyes filmed with tears, but his voice showed no sign of them. He had fair skin, brown hair, and blue eyes.

Equipment

"All snow-speeders will remain on the ground until we can figure this out, officer Jamiro.""At your command."
―Leia Organa and Tigran Jamiro discuss the iced over speeder engines
Jamiro wore a set of rebel snow gear that included a brown sleeveless jacket over a white uniform, as well as white command gauntlets and a white insulated watch cap with a com set, a brown face wrap, and white cap warmers.

Behind the scenes
Production, naming, and inconsistencies
     Ray Hassett (right) on the set of The Empire Strikes Back  
Tigran Jamiro was portrayed by Ray Hassett in the 1980 original trilogy film, Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back. His scene was filmed between March 29 and April 4, 1979. Hassett was only credited as one of several "Other officers" in the film.
The character's name was first established in the new Star Wars canon in the mobile card game Star Wars: Force Collection, which initially launched in 2013. Although the launch of Force Collection predates the Star Wars canon reset of 2014, Lucasfilm Story Group member Leland Chee confirmed that the game was kept updated to fit with canon. The name Tigran Jamiro originated in the Star Wars Legends continuity, where it first appeared on a card in the 1996 Hoth Limited expansion set of the Star Wars Customizable Card Game by Decipher, Inc.
In Force Collection, the image used on Jamiro's card is one of fellow rebel officer Bren Derlin. The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?, a 2015 novelization of The Empire Strikes Back by Adam Gidwitz, alters Jamiro's film scene to have Leia Organa and the droids C-3PO and R2-D2 present. The 2017 junior novelization of the film by Ryder Windham only slightly alters some of Jamiro's dialogue.

LEGO

"General, there's a fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of hyperspace in sector four."
―A line spoken by Tigran Jamiro in LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, but by Romas Navander in The Empire Strikes Back
     Tigran Jamiro (right) in LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga  
In the 2022 non-canon video game LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, Jamiro appears with a ginger beard and moustache and is identified only as "deck officer" in subtitles. He is first seen in the opening cutscene of the game's adaptation of The Empire Strikes Back, engaging in a snowball fight with another rebel outside Echo Base as Solo returns from patrol on a tauntaun. He misses with a snowball before being knocked to the floor by his opponent's throw. Inside the base, Jamiro is then using a chainsaw to carve ice into the shape of a stormtrooper as Solo dismounts.
Jamiro then appears again during the mission "Hoth and Cold," where instead of interacting with Solo in the tauntaun chamber, the pair are stood with General Carlist Rieekan in the Echo Base command center when R2-D2 and C-3PO approach the trio and inform them that Skywalker has not returned from patrol. Solo and Jamiro then discuss the snowspeeders as in the film before Solo departs with Rieekan. It is then Jamiro that informs Rieekan, Solo, Organa and other gathered rebels in the Echo Base hangar that a fleet of Star Destroyers has arrived in sector four above Hoth, showing the Imperial forces with a holoprojector. Jamiro's line about the Star Destroyers is instead spoken by Lieutenant Romas Navander in The Empire Strikes Back.

     Jamiro is shown in the trenches outside Echo Base during the Battle of Hoth in LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga.  
Jamiro can later be seen wielding a blaster rifle among the rebel soldiers in the trenches outside Echo Base during the mission "Assault on Hoth," laughing with the others when Derlin is left with blue marks around his eyes after using a pair of binoculars to spot the incoming All Terrain Armored Transports. The walkers then open fire on the trench, causing Jamiro and the others to cry out as snow falls to cover them all. They then emerge from the snow and Jamiro is later shown watching as the Imperials destroy Echo Base's shield generator. Jamiro's likeness is also used for the icon of the mission "Aquamarine around the Gills," however, he does not feature in the mission itself.
