    


Toos


Descriptive information

Gender
Male


Pronouns
He/him



Chronological and political information

Affiliation(s)
Galactic Empire


[Source]



"Uh, everything's under control. Situation normal.""What happened?""Uh, had a slight weapons malfunction. But, uh, everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here now, thank you. How are you?"
―Han Solo tries to bluff Toos after the shootout in Detention Block AA-23 —  Listen (file info)
Toos was a male individual who served as an ensign aboard the Galactic Empire's first Death Star battle station. In 0 BBY, he was on duty in Station Control West with Sublieutenant Slallen when the YT-1300 light freighter Millennium Falcon was brought into the Death Star's Docking Bay 327, and the pair argued about the quality of the vessel. When their commanding officer, station commander Pamel Poul, demanded they have the bay cleared, Slallen informed her that they could not until the scanning crew checking the freighter was finished.
Poul then ended her shift and handed over control of the room to Commander Sheard, but before she could leave, alarms went off, which Slallen and Toos informed both commanders was due to the sensors and cameras having gone down in Detention Block AA-23. On Poul's orders, Toos tried to get in contact with the detention block, whose staff had been taken out by the Millennium Falcon crew members during their mission to rescue the Rebel Alliance prisoner Princess Leia Organa. The Falcon's captain, Han Solo, responded to Toos's call and tried unsuccessfully to convince him that everything was fine, but Poul ordered Toos to send a squad into the detention block after Solo blasted the comm unit in panic.

Biography
Fascination with the Falcon

"Piece of junk? Sublieutenant Slallen, I despair, I really do. That piece of junk, as you call it, is—""A YT-1300 light freighter, that is currently disrupting the docking bay schedule.""Yes, ma'am. Sorry, ma'am.""Don't apologize, Ensign. Just get the docking bay cleared, now."
―Toos and Pamel Poul —  Listen (file info)
     Toos admired the Millennium Falcon.  
Toos was a male who served the Galactic Empire as an ensign aboard the first Death Star battle station. In the year 0 BBY, Toos was posted in Station Control West and was on shift under the command of station commander Pamel Poul when the YT-1300 light freighter known as the Millennium Falcon was brought aboard by tractor beam. The freighter was forced to land in Docking Bay 327, which was under the jurisdiction of Toos's station, resulting in all traffic scheduled for that bay being diverted to Docking Bays 328 and 329. Toos sat at a monitoring station control console next to Sublieutenant Slallen, and the pair argued about the quality of the YT-1300 until Poul approached them to discover why Docking Bay 327 was causing a seven-minute delay.
Slallen explained that she and Toos could not clear the dock, as a scanning crew under the command of Captain Edmos Khurgee was still searching the Millennium Falcon. Poul's shift replacement, Commander Sheard, then arrived, and Poul told Toos and Slallen to report to him when Khurgee was finished. Sheard approached and ordered Toos to bring up the Falcon on the main screen. The commanders then spoke with Slallen about her brother, a naval architect whom Toos also knew.

An alarming situation

"There's an alarm from level five, Detention Block AA-Twenty-Three. Subcontrol reports all sensors in the block have gone down.""Confirmed. All cams are out."
―Slallen and Toos —  Listen (file info)
     When rebels attempted to rescue Princess Leia Organa from Detention Block AA-23, Toos and Slallen were alerted.  
An alarm began chirping on Toos's control console, causing him to frown and begin cycling through a series of switches while peering at his monitor. When Poul asked what was wrong, Toos began turning a dial to switch through surveillance frequencies but found only screen after screen of static. Slallen then reported that an alarm was going off in Detention Block AA-23 and all sensors there were down, to which Toos added that the cameras in the block were down as well.
Unbeknownst to Toos and his colleagues, the crew of the Falcon had incapacitated the staff of the detention block and destroyed the sensors while trying to rescue Princess Leia Organa of the Rebel Alliance, who was imprisoned there. On Poul's orders, Toos tried to get in contact with the detention block, but, as the block held political prisoners, it had secure comms, so they had to wait for someone to answer.

A boring conversation

"We're sending a squad up.""Uh, uh, negative, negative. We have, uh, a reactor leak here, uh, now. Give us a few minutes to lock it down. Uh, large leak, very dangerous.""Who is this? What's your operating number?""Uh—"
―Toos and Han Solo, before the latter ends the conversation by blasting the comm —  Listen (file info)
     Han Solo spoke with Toos over the comm.  
When the comm chimed, Toos opened his mouth to speak but was cut off by Han Solo, captain of the Millennium Falcon. Impersonating an Imperial, Solo tried to persuade Toos that there was nothing going awry in the detention block, claiming that they had simply suffered a weapons malfunction. Toos looked to Slallen and on her signal warned Solo that they were sending in a squad; however, Solo quickly claimed there was a reactor leak and that, therefore, no one should be sent. Suspicious, Sheard asked to know who was the officer on duty in the detention block, and Poul answered that it should be Lieutenant Shann Childsen.
Toos knew that the voice speaking to him was not that of Childsen and asked for Solo's operating number. Panicking, Solo ended the conversation by blasting the comm, wryly dismissing their "boring conversation." Poul ordered Toos to perform a systems check, and, when he and Slallen reported that there was no reactor leak, Poul ordered the security squad sent in and that Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin be contacted about the situation. Tarkin had the battle station put on full alert, but the crew of the Falcon managed to escape the Death Star with Organa. Soon after, the station was destroyed during a battle with the Rebel Alliance above the moon of Yavin 4.

Personality and traits

"Come on, you're telling me you don't recognize a classic when you see one?"
―Toos admires the Millennium Falcon —  Listen (file info)
Toos considered the YT-1300 line of light freighters to be classics and was shocked when he heard Sublieutenant Slallen disparage one, clicking his tongue in disappointment.

Behind the scenes

"My number is… 2 4… 6 4. Yes, 2464.""2464… that's MY operating number!""You pulling my leg, pal? Are you some kind of spy or… some kind of Rebel infiltrator?"
―Han Solo and Toos in LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga
     Toos was first named in the short story "End of Watch."  
Toos first appears in the 1977 original trilogy film, Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, as the comm voice speaking to Han Solo during the shootout in Detention Block AA-23. The character was not named in the film, and the accompanying voice actor went uncredited. Toos first received a name in the 2017 short story "End of Watch," written by Adam Christopher and released as part of the From a Certain Point of View anthology book. In the Star Wars Legends continuity, the Imperial's voice was featured prior to A New Hope in the 1976 novelization of the film, which was written by Alan Dean Foster.
The ensign was first identified by the operating number "2464" in LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, a 2023 non-canon video game. In the game's version of the events from A New Hope, Toos and Solo have an extended conversation in which Solo makes up the operating number 2464 in response to the ensign's query. Toos objects that 2464 is his operating number, causing Solo to suggest that perhaps Toos is a rebel spy. Toos then angrily rejects this idea and tells Solo that he is coming to the prison block with a squad himself.
