







Windu's Guile


Production information

Model
Hurrikaine crystal


Type
Lightsaber crystal


Culture
Jedi



Physical and technical specifications

Color
Violet



Usage and history

Purpose
Lightsaber construction


Heritage
Mace Windu


Affiliation
Alliance to Restore the RepublicGalactic Empire


[Source]

Windu's Guile was a rare variant type of Hurrikaine crystal that was named in honor of Jedi Master Mace Windu, a member of the Jedi Council during the last years of the Galactic Republic. Such crystals were violet in color and could be used in the construction of a lightsaber, the traditional weapon of the Jedi Order. During the Galactic Civil War, crystals of the Windu's Guile variety were used by Force-sensitives fighting for both the Rebel Alliance and the Galactic Empire.

Properties
Windu's Guile was a variant type of Hurrikaine crystal, a type of crystal that was given to a young Jedi Padawan named Mace Windu by the natives of the planet Hurikane after Windu healed one of them. The crystals were polyhedral in structure, had facets of differing size and shape, and could be found as large as an individual's fist. Windu's Guile crystals were violet–colored. The crystals could be used in the construction of a lightsaber—the traditional weapon of the Jedi Order of Force-sensitive peacekeepers—and produced a brilliant violet–colored blade. A Force-sensitive individual could tune the crystal for use in lightsaber construction. The tuning process caused it to become a focusing crystal that could only be effectively used in a lightsaber constructed by the individual who tuned it.

History
The rare Hurrikaine crystal variant known as Windu's Guile was named to honor Mace Windu, who had gone on to become a Jedi Master and a member of the Jedi Council during the final years of the Galactic Republic. The crystals were found in the galaxy during the Galactic Civil War, which was fought between the Galactic Empire and the Alliance to Restore the Republic.



This section of the article assumes 100% game completion. Any alternate stories may be noted in the "Behind the scenes" section. The events in this section may or may not have been confirmed as canon within the Star Wars Legends continuity.

The crystals were used by Force-sensitive individuals fighting for both sides during the war after the Battle of Yavin.

Assumption ends here.
Behind the scenes
The Windu's Guile Hurrikaine crystal variant first appeared in Star Wars Galaxies, a 2003 MMORPG produced by Sony Online Entertaiment, prior to the game's closure on December 15, 2011. In the game, when the crystal was installed in a lightsaber, it gave the weapon a cold damage bonus.
Originally, the crystals were only available to players of the Jedi profession working for the Rebellion or Empire who achieved the rank of general. Once having achieved this rank, the player was then able to purchase the crystal from a recruiter for a base price of 1 million credits, which was modified depending on which faction controlled the planet on which the purchase was made. However, in 2011, the crystal was included as part of the raid system added to the game in Hotfix 21.4, which allowed players greater access to the crystals.
In 2008, Windu's Guile received a card in Champions of the Force, the first set for the virtual Star Wars Galaxies Trading Card Game, released by Sony Online Entertainment to go along with Star Wars Galaxies. The Windu's Guile card was illustrated by artist Kuki Huang.
