







Xyston-class Star Destroyer


Production information

Manufacturer
Kuat-Entralla Engineering


Type
Battlecruiser-classed Star Destroyer (Anaxes War College System)



Technical specifications

Length
2,406 meters


Height/depth
682 meters


Engine unit(s)
Ion engines (7)


Hyperdrive system
Equipped


Power plant
Solar ionization reactorAuxiliary reactor


Shielding
Deflector shield generator domes (2)


Hull
Multi-layered armor


Sensor systems
Equipped


Armament
Axial superlaser (1)Heavy turbolaser batteries (40)Ion cannons (40)Point-defense laser cannons (40)Variable-ordnance warhead launchers (35)Heavy tractor beam projectors (10)


Complement
TIE/dg starfighters (72)


Docking bays
Launch bays (2)


Crew
29,585


Communication systems
Enhanced communications array


Other systems
Artificial intelligenceAutomated systemsFlight control systemsTractor beam control center



Usage

Role(s)
Orbital bombardment


Year introduced
35 ABY


Retired
35 ABY


Affiliation
Sith EternalFinal Order


[Source]



"The Resistance is dead. The Sith flame will burn. All worlds surrender or die. The Final Order begins."
―Darth Sidious
The Xyston-class Star Destroyer, also known as the Xyston-class Destroyer, the Final Order Star Destroyer, the Sith Star Destroyer, Sith Destroyer, or simply the "planet destroyer," was a model of Star Destroyer exclusively used by the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order. Manufactured by Kuat-Entralla Engineering and essentially derived from the traditional Imperial-class Star Destroyer, the Xyston-class was one of a kind due to its axial superlaser capable of annihilating any world or ship. The Sith Star Destroyer represented the culmination of the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious' vision of a galaxy forced into submission by sheer military might and intimidation. 
Patiently built in utmost secrecy on Exegol at Palpatine's behest during and well after the Galactic Civil War, the Xyston-class Star Destroyer would prove to be the most powerful ship ever made in the galactic history, as a single destroyer would pose a deadly threat to virtually any world or vessel. Although the Xyston-class Star Destroyer successfully raided and obliterated the planet Kijimi, it would not see action until the climactic Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY, where the 1,080 Sith Star Destroyers faced overwhelming odds. 
Darth Sidious ordered Allegiant General Enric Pryde to deploy the fleet of Xyston-class Star Destroyers from Exegol, but their launch was prevented in extremis by the destruction of the Final Order's flagship. Trapped in Exegol's atmosphere and unable to move from their position, the Sith Star Destroyers were ultimately destroyed one after the other at great cost by the Resistance. Not only their destruction potentially saved many worlds and deprived the First Order of decisive reinforcements, it also sealed the collapse of the Final Order and with it, marked the turning point of the ongoing war in favor of the Resistance.
Unparalleled and well ahead of its time, the Xyston-class Star Destroyer was a redoutable battleship that could and should have been the ultimate weapon guaranteeing the domination of the Sith Eternal upon the galaxy. But critical flaws in its conception prematurely sealed its fate before the Sith Star Destroyer could unleash its full potential. Ultimately, the Xyston-class Star Destroyer was abandoned and disbanded following the death of Darth Sidious and the subsequent destruction of its representatives at the Battle of Exegol. 

Characteristics
Design

"A fleet of Star Destroyers a thousand times more powerful than the galaxy has ever seen."
―Darth Sidious
     The Xyston-class Star Destroyer was armed with a powerful superlaser, and was inspired by the design of the Imperial I-class.  
The Xyston-class Star Destroyer, also designated as the Xyston-class Destroyer and known as the Final Order Star Destroyer, the Sith Star Destroyer, Sith Destroyer, and "planet destroyer," was a class of 2,406-meter-long and 682-meter-high Star Destroyer that was manufactured by Kuat-Entralla Engineering. Due to its length, it fell under the battlecruiser classification in the Anaxes War College System. The starship was meant to invoke annihilation.
Since their construction was undertaken at the time of the Galactic Empire, their design was therefore strongly reminiscent of the historic Imperial-class Star Destroyer, and appeared to be quite outdated by the time the Sith Star Destroyers were finally revealed to the galaxy in 35 ABY. On the other hand, they were scaled up and fitted with efficient automation systems to lower crew requirements to 29,585 crew members. Each Xyston featured the red markings of the Sith Eternal on the very edges of its dorsal hull. As a derivative of the Imperial-class design, the Sith Star Destroyer maintained the same dagger-shaped hull, and was characterized by a conning tower situated atop a armored superstructure.

Equipment and systems
     Xyston-class Star Destroyers under construction during the Imperial Era  
Within the tower were the inhabited crew decks, the bridge, and a powerful deflector shield generator. The tower's exterior featured two deflector shield generator domes on the port and starboard side, with an enhanced communications array identical in physical appearance to the Imperial I-class Star Destroyer's tractor beam targeting array situated at the center. The bow of the Sith Star Destroyer was stocked with a forward sensor cluster, forward atmosphere pressurization and circulation pumps, the atmosphere distribution duct, raw material stores, and liquid stores.
Although equipped with a hyperdrive and deflector shields, Sith Star Destroyers could not activate either on Exegol due to the turbulent atmosphere full of static discharges. While they possessed individual navigation systems, a navigational beacon from a navigation tower had to be connected to the navigation systems on each Xyston-class ship, surrendering their flight control systems to a coordinating intelligence.

Reactor and superlaser
 Main article: Axial superlaser

"These— These aren't just machines. Each will carry a cannon… that can destroy a planet… and there are hundreds of them!"
―Ochi
     The axial superlaser of a Xyston-class Star Destroyer  
The epitome of the destroyer's destructive nature, Xyston-class Star Destroyers were each equipped with the axial superlaser cannon, a superweapon capable of destroying entire planets in the name of enforcing Palpatine's rule. The weapon was activated by the direct impulse of ionic energy from the reactor and when fired, the axial superlaser fired a continuous blast that penetrated deep into a planet. After penetrating the surface, the beam pulsated continuously generated by its reactor until parts of a planet exploded, eventually resulting in the entire terrestrial body succumbing to a large explosion. The barrel of axial superlaser had a forcing cone barrel head followed by a collimator assembly sleeve. The cannon was supported by articulation cradle servomotors and a superlaser power feed direct from the main reactor. Like the Death Star, these weapons were powered by kyber crystals. Hangar space and deep storage areas were sacrificed to make space for the axial superlaser and its related power distribution network.
The First Order's Mandator IV-class Siege Dreadnought was a test project that was derived from the Xyston-class Star Destroyer's design. Since the superlaser was tied to the ship's reactor, the destruction of one led to the destruction of both. The abundant reserves of power had to be diligently balanced and managed by a crew of skilled fleet technicians. Usually, ship systems brought down the power output to safe levels, but since the superlaser was a direct tap to the reactor, any miscalculation committed by technical crews monitoring the reactor would have critical consequences. Bridge-based duty stations were more desirable posts for fleet technicians than the radioactive areas of the engineering section or superlaser maintenance. The reactor was located near the primary power converters, a principal power distribution trunk, a port main sublight engine power trunk, reactor coolant pumps, and a heavy weapons power converter. Located within the superstructure were the hyperdrive generator and field projectors, the hyperdrive power distribution trunk, and an atmospheric processing plant. Towards the stern of the ship, the main sublight engine nozzles gave way to the coolant storage bottles, the main reactor fuel silo, the auxiliary reactor, and other systems.

     The rear of the Xyston-class Star Destroyers  
For sublight propulsion, the Xyston-class featured seven ion engines (three primary and four secondary, with the smaller secondary engines flanking the larger main engines) at the aft of the vessel, and main power was provided by a solar ionization reactor that fed directly into the Sith Star Destroyer's planet-destroying axial superlaser. At least two launch bays were adjacent to the superlaser, and an engineering section was located between the cannon and the reactor. The reactor was situated on the ventral hull below the superstructure of the Star Destroyer. The reactor consisted of a hypermatter annihilation chamber that was protected by a multi-layered armor and shielded dome. The heavily shielded carbonite- and durasteel-lined chamber collected the energy output from the power core, and distributed to intensive systems like the hyperdrive and the sublight propulsion. With the injection of hypermatter catalysts, the reactor created a miniature sun, and the resulting energetic output was channeled directly into the kyber-focused superlaser.

Other armament and complement
The sole purpose of the Xyston-class was to enforce Palpatine's rule with their superlasers, creating a ship that exemplified the idea that form followed function. All the same, for ship-to-ship combat and defense, Xyston-class ships were further armed with forty heavy turbolaser batteries, forty ion cannons, forty point-defense laser cannons, thirty-five variable-ordnance warhead launchers, and ten heavy tractor beam projectors. The two launch bays contained a total of seventy-two TIE/dg starfighters that were held in place by docking clamps.

Role

"The day this fleet launches, freedom dies in the galaxy."
―Beaumont Kin
The Xyston-class Star Destroyer was meant to quickly station itself at various key points throughout the galaxy with the aim of removing any desire for freedom and establishing an everlasting order. With its orbital bombardment role, the Xyston could be used for first-strike capabilities.

History
Creation and early history

"The might of the Final Order will soon be ready. It will be yours if you do as I ask."
―Darth Sidious, to Kylo Ren
     The Xyston-class Star Destroyers were under construction since the time of the Galactic Empire within the shipyards of Exegol.  
Shortly after the rise to power of the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious, the Sith Lord began to modernize the shipyard forges in the Forbidden District on the Sith world of Exegol in the Unknown Regions as a contingency to maintain a redoubt of power secret from the rest of the Galactic Empire. Secret shipments from corporate Sith loyalists updated the facilities to produce the Xyston-class Star Destroyer and the new Sith TIE/dg starfighters. By the time of the Escape from Cloud City by members of the Rebel Alliance in 3 ABY, hundreds of Sith Star Destroyers were already in production below the surface of Exegol by Sith cultists. When Sidious' Sith apprentice Darth Vader and the Sith assassin Ochi of Bestoon arrived during a mission to Exegol in order for Vader to uncover his Sith Master's secrets and challenge his power, Darth Sidious revealed the armada of Xystons to further display his power to Vader. Sidious additionally revealed a large kyber crystal near the shipyard that was used for the superlasers and bled it, resulting in a blinding light and Vader's submission to Sidious.
Following the first death of Sidious during the Battle of Endor, the death of Vader, and the subsequent collapse of the Empire, Darth Sidious returned and controlled the rise of the First Order, a successor state ruled by his puppet Supreme Leader Snoke. The First Order deployed the Mandator IV-class Siege Dreadnought, which was in actuality a test project for the axial superlasers for the Xyston-class Star Destroyers. Following the usurpation of Snoke's apprentice, Kylo Ren, to the position of Supreme Leader and continued war between the First Order and the Resistance, Darth Sidious announced his return to the wider galaxy. When Ren confronted Sidious on Exegol, the Sith Lord raised his entire fleet, named the Final Order, and all of its 1,080 Sith Star Destroyers from beneath the planet's surface. The Sith armada was offered to Ren to bolster the First Order's resources and to rule the galaxy under the perpetual reign of a new Sith Empire.
The news of the legions of Sith Star Destroyers was discussed by the First Order Supreme Council, where it was debated by the top leaders of the regime. After the Supreme Leader stated his belief that the Sith Eternal forces would allow the First Order to develop into a true empire, General Domaric Quinn expressed distrust in the newly discovered Sith armada. Allegiant General Enric Pryde quickly rebutted and scolded Quinn by stating that the Final Order fleet would increase the First Order's resources ten-thousandfold and that it would correct the error of Starkiller Base. As a result of the Sith armada, General Bellava Parnadee suggested to General Amret Engell that the First Order should increase recruitments, yet Quinn was then killed by Supreme Leader Kylo Ren after again expressing skepticism.

Destruction of Kijimi

"Send a ship to a world they know. Let it burn. The Final Order begins."
―Darth Sidious, to Allegiant General Enric Pryde
     The Derriphan prepares to open fire on Kijimi.  
Following a duel on Kef Bir and Ren's subsequent return to the light side of the Force and reclaiming his old identity as Ben Solo, Sidious contacted Allegiant General Pryde to dispatch a Xyston-class Star Destroyer to Kijimi to destroy it as a show of the Sith Eternal's power and for the general to travel to Exegol after ordering him to Exegol to oversee the launch of the Final Order and lead it. Pledging his loyalty once again to his Galactic Emperor, General Pryde carried out the orders.
The Star Destroyer Derriphan, under the command of Captain Chesille Sabrond, was then sent out from Exegol to the Mid Rim world, becoming the first Xyston-class ship to launch into the galaxy at large. Once First Order forces had been evacuated with Protocol 13, the Derriphan fired its axial superlaser and destroyed Kijimi. Following the destruction of the planet, the Derriphan returned to Exegol and rejoined the Final Order fleet.

Battle of Exegol
Prelude and first attack
After the Resistance regrouped on Ajan Kloss, they discovered that their companion Rey had taken Luke Skywalker's T-65B X-wing Red Five to Exegol, and was transmitting navigation coordinates that led the way through the Unknown Regions. General Poe Dameron and General Finn rallied the Resistance, and proposed that if they destroyed the navigation tower on Exegol's surface, the Sith fleet would be stuck in the atmosphere and without shields. Once that occurred, they would target the axial superlasers on the Star Destroyers and destroy the fleet. Knowing that they were outnumbered, General Lando Calrissian and the Wookiee Chewbacca were sent on the Millennium Falcon through the Core Worlds to rally any allies. Soon after the briefing, Rey had arrived on Exegol, which was announced by a Sith Eternal officer on a Sith Star Destroyer. Allegiant General Pryde promptly ordered the fleet to rise to deployment altitude, and the Xyston-class Star Destroyers began to rise through the surface.
Shortly after Rey entered the Sith Citadel, a Sith fleet technician on the Derriphan announced to Captain Sabrond that they had Resistance craft incoming. Sabrond looked to General Pryde for direction, who then ordered her to use ion cannons. The Resistance fleet then arrived on Exegol, and immediately came under attack by the legions of Star Destroyers. After the chaotic entry, General Dameron ordered the Resistance ships to drop to the fleet's altitude, deducing that the Star Destroyers could not fire on them without inflicting damage on themselves. Finn then located the navigation tower, but the Sith Star Destroyers launched Sith TIE fighters from their launch bays and engaged the Resistance fighters. Once the Resistance began approaching the tower, General Pryde ordered that the signal be transferred to his flagship, the Resurgent-class Star Destroyer Steadfast.

Battle intensifies
     Defenseless against the allied attack, many Sith Star Destroyers quickly succumbed to multiple explosions.  
Once the signal was switched to the Steadfast, the Resistance attack pivoted to the Sith fleet's command ship, and landed Resistance troopers on the hull near the ship's navigation tower while they were provided air cover by the starfighters. After a skirmish on the Steadfast, the Resistance managed to temporarily disable the navigation system. They soon realized that the Steadfast was rebooting their system, and that reinforcements may not be arriving. Dameron then ordered aerial Resistance forces to attack the Xyston-class Star Destroyers themselves, but began sustaining major casualties. Rey looked on while she confronted Darth Sidious at the Citadel as more Resistance fighters were destroyed by the Sith forces. One starfighter, piloted by Major Temmin Wexley, was shot down and crashed into the hull of a Sith Star Destroyer, causing an explosion. Overwhelmed by the communications and visuals of his companions being destroyed around him, Dameron apologized to his pilots and began to lose hope.
It was at that moment that General Calrissian and Chewbacca had arrived, with a sizable force of 14,000 vessels that was dubbed the Citizens' Fleet. Dameron promptly took command and ordered the ships to target the superlasers on the Sith Star Destroyers. The Sith Star Destroyer Sutta, under the command of Captain Strok, became the first victim of the allied forces, with starfighters and the Millennium Falcon targeting the Sutta's superlaser. The cannon exploded, and sent a chain reaction through the midship that caused multiple large explosions that consumed the Star Destroyer. Shortly after the Sutta's destruction was relayed on the Steadfast's bridge, General Pryde expressed confusion on where the Resistance could have conjured up such a force. The spice runner Zorii Bliss within a BTA-NR2 Y-wing starfighter then targeted another Xyston's superlaser and destroyed it, resulting in multiple explosions on the Sith Star Destroyer's ventral hull.

     The Final Order fleet was overwhelmed.  
The allied armada had soon followed the initial assault, and began pelting the Sith fleet with laserfire, concussion missiles, and proton torpedoes. The Resistance no longer had a numerical disadvantage, and the Xyston-class Star Destroyers crumpled under the attack as they were too close to each other. As a result, many Sith Star Destroyers collided, others lost their engines and began falling to Exegol's surface. The large vessels that were designed to destroy planets could not destroy the smaller vessels of the Resistance. One Sith Star Destroyer listed sideways with smoke billowing from its hull and collided with another, and both fell to the surface. Another Star Destroyer fell after a pair of torpedoes hit its underside. Star Destroyers began falling out of their place in the fleet, with many exploding into multiple segments.

Counterattack and final destruction
     The surface of Exegol was riddled with the wrecks of the Sith Star Destroyers.  
Concurrent to the battle, Rey and the redeemed Ben Solo were incapacitated after they had confronted Sidious and the live Force of their Force dyad was consumed. Regaining his body and obtaining untapped power, Sidious exclaimed to his Sith disciples not to worry about the allied attack on the Final Order fleet. Sidious then released a torment of Force lightning into the atmosphere, targeting any vessels that were not affiliated with the Sith. The ships were disabled and began to crash down into the surface, but Rey, who had summoned the strength from all the Jedi before her once again confronted Sidious, forcing him to end the lightning barrage. Recuperating, the allied forces regrouped and continued their attack on the Sith Star Destroyers.
Darth Sidious was soon killed by Rey, and the bridge of the Steadfast was destroyed by Finn and Resistance fighter Jannah, resulting in the loss of the navigation signal. As Sith Star Destroyers crumbled all around the Steadfast, the ship began to fall and crashed into the surface of Exegol after Finn and Jannah were rescued. Many other Sith Star Destroyers began crashing into the surface, and wreckage soon littered much of the ground. As Star Destroyers continued to crash, Rey in Red Five joined with the Resistance forces and the Citizens' Fleet, which were beginning to leave the planet. As word of the Sith Eternal's defeat and the destruction of the Sith spread, an uprising against the First Order began throughout the galaxy.

Behind the scenes
     Cross-sections of the Xyston-class Star Destroyer.  
The Xyston-class first appeared in Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker. The concept of a modified Imperial-class Star Destroyer equipped with a superlaser exists in the Star Wars Legends continuity as the Star Destroyer Conqueror.
